The Project Gutenberg eBook of Bob, the photographer
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Bob, the photographer
        Or, a hero in spite of himself

Author: Edward Stratemeyer

Release date: January 4, 2025 [eBook #75034]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: Stitt Publishing Company, 1902

Credits: Aaron Adrignola, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOB, THE PHOTOGRAPHER ***



[Illustration: JOEL CARROW DARTED FROM THE BARN, AND AFTER THE
SCAMPERING PIGS.]




  Bob
  The Photographer

  _Or, A Hero in Spite of Himself_

  BY
  ARTHUR M. WINFIELD

  AUTHOR OF “THE ROVER BOYS SERIES,” “THE PUTNAM
  HALL SERIES,” ETC.

  [Illustration]

  NEW YORK
  STITT PUBLISHING COMPANY
  PUBLISHERS




BOOKS BY ARTHUR M. WINFIELD


_ROVER BOYS SERIES for young Americans_

_Price, per volume, 60 cents_

  ROVER BOYS AT SCHOOL
  ROVER BOYS ON THE OCEAN
  ROVER BOYS IN THE JUNGLE
  ROVER BOYS OUT WEST
  ROVER BOYS ON THE GREAT LAKES
  ROVER BOYS IN THE MOUNTAINS
  ROVER BOYS ON LAND AND SEA
  ROVER BOYS IN CAMP
  ROVER BOYS ON THE RIVER


_PUTNAM HALL SERIES_

_Price, per volume, 60 cents_

  THE PUTNAM HALL CADETS

(Other volumes in preparation)


  Copyright, 1902
  BY A. WESSELS COMPANY




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                            PAGE

       I. BOB AND HIS TROUBLES,                         9

      II. BOB AT THE CLIFF,                            22

     III. BOB AT THE HALF-WAY HOUSE,                   33

      IV. BOB IS LEFT TO HIS FATE,                     45

       V. BOB MAKES HIS ESCAPE,                        55

      VI. BOB LEARNS SOMETHING,                        72

     VII. BOB AND THE ELEPHANT,                        87

    VIII. BOB OBTAINS A SITUATION,                    101

      IX. BOB HAS A LIVELY FIGHT,                     116

       X. BOB’S FIRST CUSTOMER,                       125

      XI. BOB ASSISTS A STRANGER,                     138

     XII. BOB’S QUEER EXPERIENCE,                     148

    XIII. BOB MAKES A TRUE FRIEND,                    159

     XIV. BOB MAKES A NEW MOVE,                       170

      XV. BOB BECOMES A TRAVELLING PHOTOGRAPHER,      178

     XVI. BOB TAKES A DIVE OVERBOARD,                 187

    XVII. BOB MAKES A STRANGE CAPTURE,                195

   XVIII. BOB SHOWS UP A SWINDLER,                    202

     XIX. BOB ON THE ROAD,                            209

      XX. BOB IN THE WOODS,                           217

     XXI. BOB TAKES A RISK,                           224

    XXII. BOB ON THE FREIGHT TRAIN,                   231

   XXIII. BOB FORMS A RESOLUTION,                     238

    XXIV. BOB STICKS UP FOR A FRIEND,                 246

     XXV. BOB AND FRANK STAND TOGETHER,               252

    XXVI. BOB SHOWS HIS NERVE,                        259

   XXVII. BOB MAKES A FIND,                           267

  XXVIII. BOB MEETS OLD BLAKE,                        273

    XXIX. BOB HEARS INTERESTING NEWS,                 280

     XXX. BOB LEARNS SOMETHING OF THE PAST,           287

    XXXI. BOB GOES IT ALONE,                          295

   XXXII. BOB BECOMES A PRISONER,                     302

  XXXIII. BOB AND HIS MOTHER--CONCLUSION,             313




INTRODUCTION


MY DEAR BOYS:

“Bob the Photographer” relates the adventures of a wide-awake lad who
suddenly finds himself thrown out on the world at large to make his way
and earn his own living.

Bob falls in with an amateur photographer, a “camera fiend,” and
becomes so interested in the art that he resolves to take up
photography for a living. He does so, and his pictures being good, he
obtains a situation with a railroad company, to make pictures along the
line, for use in the company’s guide books, and for other purposes.
This work leads him into a number of adventures, in many of which he
proves “a hero in spite of himself.”

My object in writing this tale was twofold. First, to let boys know
how they can get on in this world, no matter how humble the start,
providing they will do to the best of their ability whatever their
hands find to do. Success is deserved only when one “pitches in” with a
will, and when one “sticks at it” to the end.

My second object was to let my readers know something about
photography, providing they have not already mastered the first steps
in that art. During my leisure hours I have taken up “snap shotting”
myself, and have found that, and the work of developing and printing
the pictures, very interesting. All told, there is no cleaner or better
recreation, nor one better calculated to make the follower more patient.

Trusting the story will prove to your liking, I remain,

                                  Affectionately and sincerely yours,
                                                     ARTHUR M. WINFIELD.




BOB THE PHOTOGRAPHER




CHAPTER I

BOB AND HIS TROUBLES


“Bob! I say, Bob! Where is that saw?”

“I left it in the barn, Mr. Carrow.”

“Humph! I don’t believe it. I’ve looked all over, and I can’t find it.”

“I left it on the peg where it belongs,” returned the boy, his eyes
flashing at the manner in which he had been addressed.

“I don’t believe a word on it!” growled Joel Carrow. “You are always
leavin’ things layin’ round loose. Go an’ git it, an’ be quick about
it, or you’ll git your hide tanned well, mind that!”

Bob Alden stood for a moment irresolute, and then folded his arms and
unflinchingly faced the man before him.

“If the saw isn’t where I put it, I don’t know where it is,” he said.

“What’s that?” roared the farmer. “Don’t talk back to me! Be off with
you, and bring it quick.”

Still the boy did not budge. Joel Carrow gazed at him in amazement,
then made a rush and seized the youth by the arm.

“See here, what’s got into you this mornin’?” he snarled. “Ain’t you
a-goin’ to obey me?”

“No, I’m not,” answered Bob, coolly and firmly.

“You ain’t?” gasped Joel Carrow, scarcely believing he had heard aright.

It was the first time that Bob had stood up for himself, and the mean,
miserly farmer for whom he worked could not fully comprehend the turn
of affairs.

“No, I am not,” repeated the youth. “Let go of my arm.”

“Oh, I’ll let go!” snarled Joel Carrow, in a rage. “Take that!” and
with his disengaged hand he aimed a blow at Bob’s head. The youth
ducked, and the fist of the farmer came in sharp and painful contact
with a corner of the pig-sty he was repairing. With a howl of pain he
let go his hold on the boy and placed his wounded hand to his mouth,
and then swung it in the air. The youth lost no time in retreating
several paces.

“I’ll fix you!” cried Joel Carrow. “You’re a good-for-nothin’ lazy
whelp!”

“Thank you!” returned Bob, with increased coolness. “And you are the
meanest man in the State.”

“Shut up!”

“I won’t. I’ve stood your abuse long enough, and now I intend to speak
my mind. I’ve worked for you nearly a year now, and in that time you
have treated me worse than a dog.”

“I’ve treated you better’n yer deserve,” muttered Joel Carrow, not
knowing what else to say.

“You promised to give me ten dollars a month and my board, and you have
never yet paid me a full month’s wages, always deducting something for
this or that I couldn’t help; and the food you gave me wasn’t fit for a
pig.”

With a snarl Joel Carrow sprang toward Bob. The youth had told the
plain truth, and it was evident the farmer knew it only too well.

Bob retreated, and his miserly employer followed him into the
barn-yard. He had almost succeeded in catching the youth, when he
tripped over a pitchfork and fell headlong into a puddle of water. His
face was covered with mud, so was his blue jean shirt, and he was a
sight to behold.

Bob gazed for a second in silence, and then burst into a peal of
laughter.

“Hold up, till I take a snap shot of you!” sang out a voice from the
fence behind the barn.

Bob looked in the direction, and beheld a young man seated on the top
rail of the fence. The newcomer held a camera on his lap, and the lens
was pointed toward Joel Carrow.

Before the farmer could rise from the puddle, there was a click, and
the amateur photographer had taken his picture.

Bob gazed with interest at the young man. He had seen the fellow
before, and knew him to be the son of a wealthy merchant of New York.

“I was going to take a picture of still life around the barn,”
explained the newcomer. “But this suits me better.”

“Go on about yer business,” snarled Joel Carrow.

“What are you chasing that boy for?”

“None o’ yer business, Frank Landes. Clear out, afore I set the dogs on
you!”

“I must say you are in a very amiable mood this morning, Carrow,”
laughed Frank Landes, without shifting his position.

“Are yer goin’?”

“Not just yet. I saw you try to strike the boy, and I’m curious to know
what it’s all about.”

“You have no right on my place.”

“That’s true, Carrow, in one way, but not in another.”

“What do you mean?” returned the farmer, uneasily.

“I came down to tell you that the last consignment of eggs you sent our
firm weren’t strictly fresh, and unless you do better in the future,
Mr. Dale says he will get his eggs elsewhere.”

“Them eggs were strictly fresh when they left here,” grumbled Joel
Carrow.

“That’s not so,” put in Bob. “The eggs were taken from those we had
stored all winter, and----”

“Shut up!” interrupted the farmer, red with rage.

“I won’t. I said it wasn’t a fair way to do when you shipped them.”

“If yer don’t keep quiet, I’ll wring yer neck!”

Joel Carrow made another dive for the youth. Bob escaped to the barn,
but before he could go farther the farmer caught him by the collar,
pulled him backward, and threw him down.

“I’ll fix yer!” he foamed, as he caught up a heavy stick, and hauled
back ready to strike Bob on the head.

“Don’t you dare strike me, Joel Carrow!”

“Yer can’t worry me, Bob Alden. Let this be a lesson to you.”

Joel Carrow’s hand was about to descend, but the blow never reached its
mark.

“Not so fast!” sang out the voice of Frank Landes, and the next instant
the farmer was hurled backward, and the stick was wrenched from his
grasp.

Taking advantage of the interruption, Bob Alden sprang quickly to his
feet.

“I owe you one for that,” he said to Frank Landes.

“No, you don’t,” returned Landes. “If I am not mistaken, it was you
saved me from that wild bull the day I was taking pictures over in
Sarding’s meadow.”

Bob smiled. He remembered the incident well, in which he had played the
part of a hero.

During this time Joel Carrow was muttering a number of nasty things
under his breath. He now strode over to where Frank Landes stood, the
stick still in his hand.

“You ain’t got no right ter interfere in this fashion,” he began,
savagely.

“No?” returned Landes, with just the faintest show of a smile playing
around the corners of his mouth.

“No, yer ain’t. I won’t stand it.”

“What do you propose to do about it?”

“I’ll--I’ll have yer arrested.”

At this even Bob was compelled to laugh. The laugh enraged the miserly
farmer still more, and his eyes blazed furiously.

“It ain’t no laughin’ matter.”

“You have no right to hit the boy,” returned Frank Landes, sternly.

“What do you know about it?”

“If I hadn’t stepped in you would have nearly killed him.”

“He deserves it,” howled Carrow. “He’s the imp’s own.”

“What’s the row?”

“As I said afore, it’s none o’ your business.”

“He said I hadn’t put the saw where it belonged,” explained Bob. “I
placed it on the peg in this barn, and just because it wasn’t there, he
told me he was going to tan my hide for me.”

“And I presume you objected to the tanning process, eh?”

“I did.”

“I don’t wonder. Carrow, you are a big brute.”

“What!”

“I’ve said it, and I’ll stick to it. You are a brute and ought to go to
jail.”

“Take care, Landes, I ain’t standin’ everything,” snarled the farmer.

“Is this boy anything to you?”

“I hired him ter work on the farm, but he ain’t wuth his salt.”

“He works me half to death,” put in Bob. “He makes me get up at four
o’clock every morning, Sundays included, and I don’t have five minutes
to myself till it’s time to knock off, generally nine or ten o’clock at
night.”

“I wouldn’t stay if I were you,” replied Frank Landes.

“I don’t intend to. I’m going to leave to-day.”

It was a sudden resolution on Bob’s part, but the youth meant it.

“Leave!” ejaculated Joel Carrow, in sudden alarm.

“Yes, leave.”

“Yer month ain’t up.”

“I don’t care.”

“I won’t pay yer a cent.”

“I don’t care for that, either. I’m going, and that’s all there is to
it.”

“You ought to pay the boy what is coming to him,” put in Frank Landes.

“Not a cent,” returned the farmer, decidedly.

“You had better, Carrow. If you don’t, I’ll help him take his case to
the nearest justice and testify as to how you’ve been treating him.”

“You villain!”

“Softly, sir. You had no more right to hit that boy than you had to hit
me. The best thing you can do is to settle up with him.”

Joel Carrow breathed hard. He wanted to say something sharp, to tear
somebody to pieces, but he didn’t dare to make a move, and there was
really nothing to say.

Frank Landes turned to Bob.

“How much does he owe you?” he asked.

“Five dollars on this month, and three on last.”

“Then, Carrow, pay the boy eight dollars and let him go.”

The coolness of the suggestion amazed the farmer. He stared at the
young man and staggered up against a feed box.

“Pay--him--eight--dollars?” he said, with painful slowness.

“Either that, or I will take him to the nearest justice without further
delay. You will find going to law much more expensive.”

Joel Carrow gave a groan. Then he brought forth a well-worn pocket-book
and with trembling fingers counted out eight greasy bills.

“Now you are acting sensibly,” said Landes, as Bob took the money.
“Will you go with me?” he asked, turning to the youth.

“Where to?”

“I am bound to Stampton, on a camera tour. I will pay your way if you
care to go.”

“I’ll jump at the chance,” returned Bob, quickly. “I would like----”

“Joel! Joel Carrow! Where are you?” came in the shrill voice of the
farmer’s wife. “Here you are leavin’ the pig-sty wide open an’ all the
pigs running into the garden! Mercy sakes! one of ’em’s in the dairy!
Come quick, you big fool, an’ tend to ’em, or I’ll be out there with a
broom!”

Mrs. Carrow’s angry voice was coming nearer, and without stopping to
parley longer with the others, Joel Carrow darted from the barn, and
after the scampering pigs who were scattering in all directions.

“Now is your chance to get away,” said Frank Landes, hurriedly. “I
presume you have a better suit of clothes than that.”

Bob shook his head.

“This is my best and only one.”

“And your shoes?”

“The same, and also the hat. But I have a few things up in my room,”
and running up the ladder to the part of the loft called his room Bob
soon reappeared with a small bundle tied up in a piece of old table
oil-cloth.

“Here are all my duds,” he laughed. “Ain’t quite a trunk full, is it?
Now I’m ready to----”

A wild cry from outside reached their ears, and both ran to the
door-way and then out into the barn-yard.

“By Jove! that’s rich!” cried Frank Landes. “I must take another
picture by all means!”

He hurried for his camera, and meanwhile Bob stood by the corn-crib
laughing merrily.

Joel Carrow and his wife had cornered two of the frisky porkers and
were doing their best to catch them. The pigs began to squeal, and
suddenly one of them darted under Mrs. Carrow’s foot just as she raised
it to step out of the way. She fell down, and Joel Carrow went with
her, while both pigs flew over a log and went crashing into the glass
top of a hothouse bed.

The farmer rose up and went after the pigs. He was so mad he did not
notice the hot-bed frame, and before he knew what he was doing, he,
too, was smashing glass at the rate of a dozen panes a second.

“Joel! you good-for-nothing man!” shrieked Mrs. Carrow. “Come out o’
thet!”

Mrs. Carrow arose, madder than a hornet. Near at hand was a broom, and,
picking it up, she went after her husband.

“We had better get out before they see us,” said Bob. “I’ve got my fill
of the place.”

“Come on, then.”

Frank Landes leaped the fence and Bob quickly followed. In a few
minutes the two were on a country road and out of sight of the Carrow
farm.

As they walked along the two became thoroughly acquainted. There was
something in Bob Alden’s composition that pleased Frank Landes, and he
became thoroughly interested in the youth.

“And you say you are an orphan, Bob?” he said.

“So far as I know,” returned the youth. “Old Thompson, of Windham,
brought me up, and he said he never knew where I came from.”

“Where did he get you?”

“He never told me. I intended to ask him once, but before I could get
the chance he was killed over to the flour mill. Then I had to shift
for myself, for his relatives came in and cleared out the house and
wouldn’t have nothing to do with me.”

“That was hard luck.”

“It wasn’t as hard as falling in with Joel Carrow,” answered Bob. “Gee
Christopher! but he was a hard one to get along with. If I had stayed
there another month I would have committed suicide.”

“Well, as I said before, I will take you to Stampton with me if you
wish to go, and I’ll pay expenses on the way. But what will you do when
you get there?”

“I don’t know.”

“Finding work is no easy job in a city.”

“I reckon I’ll fall on my feet. I generally do. I would like to learn
to take pictures,” concluded the boy.

More talk followed, and they hurried along until it was past noon.

“About dinner-time,” said Frank Landes, consulting his watch. “Let us
see if we can’t get dinner at that farm-house just beyond.”

They walked to the farm-house, and, after some talk, the farmer’s wife
agreed to furnish them with a meal for twenty cents each--a price
which Landes promptly paid.

“By jinks! this is what I call a spread,” cried Bob, as he surveyed the
fairly well-filled table. “I never struck such a table at Carrow’s.”

“Well, fill up, Bob,” laughed Landes. “The price is the same.”

And Bob did fill up, much to the amusement of the woman who had served
the meal, a fat, jolly person.

After the meal Landes lit a cigar and sat down on the stoop to enjoy
it. He offered Bob one, but the youth shook his head and munched an
apple instead.

The cigar finished, Frank Landes arose and stretched himself.

“Well, Bob, we might as well be on our way.”

“I’m ready whenever you are, Mr. Landes.”

Landes took up his camera and satchel, and Bob his bundle, and both
started on again.




CHAPTER II

BOB AT THE CLIFF


Toward the middle of the afternoon, Bob and Frank Landes came to a
picturesque mountain stream, flanked on one side by sloping hills and
on the other by a jagged cliff fifty or sixty feet in height.

“I want to get one or two views here,” said Frank Landes. “Let us get
over the stream and under the cliff.”

They crossed the bridge and walked along the base of the cliff for a
distance of several hundred feet.

“Now straighten out that tripod and I’ll put some plates in the
camera,” went on the young man.

He had explained the workings of the different parts of his instrument
to Bob, and the youth lost no time in complying with his request.

The tripod was set up, and the young man was just about to place the
camera upon it, when there came a terrible scream from overhead.

“What’s up?” queried Frank Landes.

“My gracious!” burst out Bob. “Look there!”

The young man looked to the spot indicated.

The sight presented was enough to chill the blood of both. A young
girl had fallen over the edge of the cliff, and now hung suspended in
mid-air, her dress caught in some scraggy rocks and bushes.

“She’ll be killed!” ejaculated Frank Landes.

“We must save her!” returned Bob. “I wonder if I can’t climb up to her
and keep her from falling.”

“Help! help!” cried the girl, in tones of deepest agony, as she caught
hold of one of the bushes with her right hand.

“Hold fast till I climb up to you!” shouted Bob.

He caught up the tripod and began to ascend the face of the cliff as
best he could.

“What are you going to do?” asked Frank Landes.

“Save the girl,” returned Bob, resolutely.

In a few minutes the fearless youth had reached a ledge some ten feet
below the spot where the girl hung. He tried to go up higher, but found
it was impossible to do so.

“Oh, help me! Help me, please!” cried the girl, as soon as she caught
sight of Bob.

“I will,” he said.

Taking the tripod he braced it as firmly as he could on the ledge upon
which he was standing. Then, by the aid of some bushes he managed to
balance himself upon the top.

By reaching out he could now grasp the girl’s arm.

“Let go and I will land you safely on the ledge,” said Bob.

“I am afraid. The fall has made me dizzy,” cried the girl. “Besides, my
dress is caught.”

“Then wait till I crawl up a little higher.”

Bob had hardly spoken when there was a sudden crack. One of the legs of
the tripod had broken, and with a wild cry, the boy lost his balance
and went over the ledge!

Frank Landes gave a cry of horror, and the girl above a shrill shriek
of added fear.

As Bob plunged over the ledge, he threw out both of his hands, and one
of them caught in some of the bushes growing below.

The bushes were torn from their roots, but Bob’s progress downward was
somewhat stayed, and, when his other hand caught a bit of projecting
rock, he held fast.

“Hold hard!” shouted Landes. “I forgot, I’ve got a bit of rope with me.”

He clambered up the cliff until he reached the ledge. Then he lowered
one end of the rope and Bob grasped it.

“Can you pull me up?” asked the youth.

“I can, if you will help by holding on to the bushes,” returned Landes.

He began to pull up slowly and with great care, and soon Bob’s hands
grasped the edge of the ledge, and he drew himself up to a place of
safety.

In the mean time the girl above was growing weaker, and she gave a low
moan.

“I can’t hold on any longer,” she gasped. “My head is awfully dizzy.”

“Hold for just a minute longer,” shouted Bob. “Frank, let me climb up
on your shoulders.”

Landes agreed. In an instant Bob was up on the young man’s shoulders.
By this time the bushes to which the girl clung had partly loosened
themselves, and the girl now hung within reach of Bob’s sturdy arms.

“Steady below!” he shouted to Landes. “Now, hold out your hand and
jump. You will come down all right,” he added to the fair one.

The girl hesitated, but after one look into Bob’s truthful eyes, she
grew confident, and, letting go her hold, allowed herself to drop into
his outstretched arms.

Landes collapsed under the combined weight. But Bob expected this, and,
as he and the girl came down, he took good care that neither should go
over the edge of the ledge.

“Oh, thank you for that!” cried the girl, and with these words she
fainted in Bob’s arms.

“Why it’s Grace Maverick,” cried Frank Landes, in intense surprise.

“And who is she?” queried Bob, gazing at the beautiful form in rather a
helpless way.

“She is the daughter of Gregory Maverick, the president of the T. W. &
L. Railroad which runs through Stampton.”

“Well, what shall I do now?” queried Bob, more awed than ever, now he
knew who his fair burden was.

“Let me help you down to the brook with her,” replied Landes. “Come
this way, there is quite a good path.”

Between them they carried the girl from the narrow ledge to a grassy
slope at the base of the cliff. Then Bob took off his cap, filled it
with water, and dashed some of it into Grace Maverick’s face.

With something like a gasp the girl came to her senses. She gazed
around for a moment, and then sat up.

“Where--where am I?” she stammered, in bewilderment.

“You are safe, Miss Maverick,” returned Frank Landes, politely.

“Oh, Mr. Landes, is it you? I remember it all! And where is the boy who
saved me?”

“Here he is. His name is Bob Alden.”

Landes turned to the youth, and Bob shuffled forward, blushing
furiously. Grace Maverick grasped his hands within her own.

“Oh, how can I thank you!” she cried, impulsively. “If it hadn’t been
for you, I would have been killed.”

“Mr. Landes did his share,” said Bob, generously.

“Nonsense,” put in Frank. “Bob is the hero.”

“I am thankful to both,” said the girl. “Where are the others?”

“What others?”

“My friends. There were four of us on the cliff, and a savage dog
scared us. I ran near the edge, and stumbled.”

“I’ll go up and look for your friends,” said Landes, and, without
waiting, he made off.

“And your name is Bob Alden?” questioned Grace Maverick.

Bob nodded.

“Mine is Grace Maverick. I am awfully glad to know you. Do you belong
around here?”

“I don’t belong anywhere just now.”

“Why, what do you mean?”

“I worked for a farmer over in Shellville, but he treated me so meanly
I left. I am bound for Stampton.”

“To get work?”

“If I can.”

“Well, when you get there you must call on me. Mr. Landes will tell you
where I live.”

“Thank you.”

“Don’t forget. I want my papa to see you. He says he likes to see
heroes, and you are one.”

“No, I’m not! I’m only a plain country boy,” said Bob. “Anybody could
do what I did.”

“Perhaps they could, but they wouldn’t all have the nerve to try. Oh,
here comes Mr. Landes now, and he has found my teacher!”

Frank now returned with an elderly lady, who at once proceeded to take
Grace in charge, scolding her for going so close to the edge of the
cliff.

“Here is the young man who saved me,” said Grace, pointing to Bob.

The elderly teacher gave the youth one stare, and then shrugged her
shoulders.

“You must have nothing to do with such common people, Grace,” she said,
lowly, but still loud enough for Bob to hear. “Come with me at once.”

“He is a noble boy,” protested the girl. “Good-bye, Bob Alden, I shall
expect to see you in Stampton. Good-bye, Mr. Landes.”

The teacher hurried Grace away. Bob and Frank both tipped their caps,
and then the youth turned to the young man.

“Christopher! Isn’t the old lady a sour one?”

“Rather,” returned Frank. “But, Bob, you’re in luck.”

“How so?”

“It’s a good stroke for you,” went on Frank. “It ought to be worth a
good deal to you.”

“What ought?”

“Saving Grace’s life. Such a thing isn’t done every day.”

“Pooh! You’re as bad as she was.”

“Why, what did she say?”

Bob told him. Frank caught his hand. “Let me congratulate you. You’re
all right.”

“Give it to me plainer, please.”

“Can’t you see? You call on Grace. See old Maverick. He takes an
interest in you and rewards you handsomely.”

“But he won’t.”

“Why not?”

“Because I won’t call.”

Frank stared at Bob in amazement.

“Won’t call?” he gasped.

“That’s it. I’d feel worse than a cat in a strange garret. I’m not used
to high-toned society.”

“But look what it might be worth to you.”

“I don’t want anything for doing a nice girl like her a little service.”

“Well you’re the queerest!”

“Maybe I am. But, say, I’m downright sorry I broke the three-legged
thing.”

“Don’t bother your head about that. It’s worth a dozen tripods to be a
hero.”

“If you don’t shut down on that talk, I’ll leave you at once,” burst
out Bob. “I’m not a hero, never was, and am not likely to be. Here’s a
bit of strong string. Let me see if I can’t splice the broken leg of
your machine.”

Frank said no more, and, sitting down, Bob took the tripod and speedily
mended the split leg.

This done, the two proceeded to take several pictures of the spot,
including one of the place where the thrilling scene recorded had
occurred.

“I’ll give you a copy of it,” said Frank. “And perhaps I’ll send one to
Miss Maverick.”

Bob was very much interested in the taking of the pictures, and asked
innumerable questions.

“We’ll stop at Fitt’s Half-way House to-night,” said Frank. “And then
I’ll show you how to develop the plates. You have to do it in a dark
room.”

“How can you see to show me, then?” asked Bob, and Frank laughed.

“We use a red light,” said the young man. “It is the only light that
doesn’t affect the plates.”

“Do you know, I would like to become a photographer,” burst out Bob.
“It must be an interesting business.”

“It is, especially outdoor work. Gallery work, though, is rather
confining.”

“I would like to become a travelling photographer, taking houses and
so, for people. Couldn’t a fellow make money that way?”

“I should think so, if he went at it the right way.”

After this, Bob was silent for a long while. He was revolving a great
number of things in his mind. He loved to travel about, and the idea of
combining business with pleasure just suited him. Besides, he was of an
artistic turn, and pictures pleased him.

“Yes, I’ll become a photographer,” he said to himself. “And I’ll travel
around, and not only try to make money, but also see if I can’t find
out who I am, and where I came from. I won’t be Bob Alden, the nobody,
any longer.”

At about sunset the two came to Fitt’s half-way road-house, an
old-fashioned hotel. Half a dozen wagons were tied up beneath the shed,
and the dining-room and parlor were both comfortably filled.

They met the proprietor of the place in the hall, and Frank at once
made arrangements for a room for both with supper and breakfast. Their
traps were taken up, and both took a wash and a brushing up previous to
entering the dining-room.

“Did you see that dark-looking fellow standing by the door of the
office?” questioned Frank, as they were arranging their toilet.

“The chap with the cut on his left cheek?”

“Yes. He is an enemy of mine, and I’m sorry he is here.”

“How is he your enemy?” asked Bob, with interest, for he could not
understand how so good-hearted a person as Frank Landes could have an
enemy.

“He used to work for our firm, and I once detected him in wrong-doing.
I exposed him, and he was discharged. He promised to get square, and I
know he will try to keep his word.”

“What is his name?”

“James Casco. He has Spanish blood in him, and is a bad man when in a
temper.”

“We’ll both keep our eyes open for him,” returned Bob. “If he tries any
underhand work, and I catch him at it, I’ll--I’ll pulverize him.”

“Really!” laughed Frank.

“I will. I always stick up for my friends, and you’re the first friend
I’ve struck in a long time. So let Casco keep his distance.”




CHAPTER III

BOB AT THE HALF-WAY HOUSE


When Bob and Frank Landes entered the dining-room and looked around at
the guests present, they saw nothing of James Casco.

“Most likely in the bar-room,” said Frank. “He is a pretty heavy
drinker.”

They did full justice to the spread, and then the young man lit a
cigar, and Bob followed him out on a side piazza, which was almost
deserted.

Frank had hardly seated himself, when a door at the end of the piazza
opened, and James Casco came out.

The scar-faced fellow had been drinking freely, and the habitual scowl
upon his face was deeper than ever.

“So you are here, eh?” he said, abruptly.

Frank stared at him.

“Did you address me?” he demanded, coolly.

“I did, and you know it. What do you mean by following me?”

“I was not aware I was following you.”

“It’s false!” cried Casco. “You’ve been following me all the way from
New York.”

The young man jumped to his feet.

“See here, Casco, I want you to shut up. I have not been following you,
and I am not in the habit of being addressed as you have addressed me.
The quicker you get out of here the better.”

“Humph! So you fancy you can bluff me?” sneered the scar-faced man.

“It’s no bluff, I want you to take back what you said.”

“Take back nothing, Landes. You are a sneak--and worse, and----”

Casco did not finish. Drawing back, Frank left out with his right hand
and Casco received a slap on the cheek that sent him staggering.

“The next time you address a gentleman be careful what you say.”

With a howl of pain and rage, Casco gathered himself together.

Bob looked on with keen interest. Frank seemed to be well able to take
his own part, and so the youth saw no reason to interfere.

Muttering something under his breath, Casco now sprang to the edge
of the piazza and looked around. No one appeared in sight. Bob was
standing in a deep shadow, and in his rage the scar-faced man did not
notice him.

Suddenly Casco put his hand into his pocket and drew forth a short
club. It made Bob start.

“I’ll see how you like that, Landes,” cried Casco. “Here you are!”

Jumping forward, Casco attempted to hit Frank Landes on the head, but
before the club could descend, Bob rushed forward and hauled Casco back.

“Better call the landlord,” he said to Frank. “This man ought to be
arrested.”

“Never!” muttered Casco. “Let me go, or I will strike you!”

Casco began to struggle, and Frank Landes jumped in to help Bob. They
had just succeeded in disarming the scar-faced man, when Casco uttered
a peculiar whistle.

“What does that mean?” queried Bob.

“I don’t know,” muttered his companion. “Get up,” he said to their
prisoner.

Casco had hardly arisen, when two men rushed around the corner of the
hotel. Each wore a slouch hat, and in the darkness nothing could be
seen of their faces.

“Help me!” cried Casco. “We must get away from here.”

“But the plan, Jim, that----” began one of the men.

“It’s all up,” muttered Casco. “Quick, help me.”

Both of the new arrivals at once fell upon Bob and Frank. The youth
and the young man fought well, but they could not overcome the other
three, and by the time the landlord and a number of his guests arrived
the two had Casco free, and then the three assailants made off in the
darkness, Casco carrying his short club with him.

“What’s the trouble?” demanded Fitt, the keeper of the road-house.

Frank and Bob related their story. All crowded around, and listened
with deep interest.

“I thought that chap was up to no good,” said Fitt. “I took him to be a
gambler.”

“He does play cards,” said Frank. “Do you know those other men?”

Fitt shook his head.

“The three of them landed here this afternoon,” he said. “They hired a
front room, but brought no baggage. I told ’em they would have to pay
in advance, and this Casco pulled out a fat roll of bills and settled
on the spot. The roll of bills and his general way made me suspicious
of him.”

“I wonder where he got the money?” mused the young man. “When he was
discharged from our house, he was compelled to make up a deficiency in
his accounts, and he then claimed he was without a dollar.”

“Maybe he didn’t give it all back, or else stole some since,” ventured
Bob. “He looks thoroughly bad.”

“You may be right.”

“Shall we go after the rascals?” asked Fitt. “All three ought to be in
the lock-up.”

“I don’t know which way they went,” returned Frank. “Do you, Bob?”

“I thought they cut around the back. Is there a road in that direction?”

“Yes, Martin’s lane comes through, and meets the road alongside the
railroad track,” answered the hotel-keeper.

“Then perhaps they took that road,” suggested Bob. “If you say the
word, Frank, we’ll go after them.”

“Couldn’t find ’em in the dark,” said Fitt, who was too scared to
venture on such a quest.

“I’ve got pretty good eyes,” laughed the youth.

A hurried consultation was held, and Frank and Bob started off alone,
Bob carrying a revolver Fitt had loaned him, Frank being supplied with
a weapon of his own.

On the two went until Bob came to a sudden halt, and plucked Frank by
the sleeve.

“Hush!” whispered the youth.

“What did you see?” came in a low tone.

“Do you see that stack of hay over yonder?”

“Yes.”

“I’m pretty sure I just saw a man dodge behind it.”

“Only one?”

“Yes. But the whole three may be there. Wait here for a few minutes.”

“What do you intend to do?”

“Go back a short distance and jump the fence. There is a ditch there,
and I think I can crawl along and get on the other side of that
hay-stack.”

“Hadn’t I better go along?”

“No; you watch out on the road. They may make a dash, and then you will
have to go after them. My idea is to see if they are there without
letting them discover me.”

“And if they are?”

“Then I’ll give you a signal--a whip-poor-will cry--and you can hurry
off for help, and we can capture them. Understand?”

“Yes, but the danger----” protested Frank.

“I don’t mind it. Now, I’ll be off. Watch the hay-stack, and listen for
the whip-poor-will cry.”

And with these words, Bob slipped into the shadow of some near-by
bushes, leaving Frank standing by a tree in the lane, alone.

Frank stood perfectly still for several minutes and then moved silently
toward a stone near the fence, intending to rest until he should hear
from Bob in one way or another.

Having seated himself the young man drew out his pistol, and examined
it to make sure that it was in proper condition for use.

It was then that he made a discovery which caused him to utter a low
cry of dismay.

The weapon was empty.

“That’s a fine state of affairs,” he muttered to himself. “And the
cartridge box in my satchel, too. I ought to be kicked for not looking
at the pistol before we left the hotel.”

Frank was thoroughly put out, but this did no good, and, with something
of a sigh, he restored the useless fire-arm to his pocket.

“I ought to have something,” he went on. “I wonder if I couldn’t cut a
stick somewhere in the bushes.”

He arose once more, and getting out his pocket-knife proceeded to cut
a sapling, which he quickly reduced to quite a respectable club having
several hard knobs at one end.

“There, I reckon if a fellow got that on the head it would make him see
stars,” thought Frank. “It isn’t as good as a loaded pistol, but it’s
better than nothing.”

Quarter of an hour passed, and still he heard or saw nothing of Bob.

“He’s making slow work of it,” soliloquized the young man. “I presume
he wants to make sure and not walk into any trap. Dear me, but this is
lonely, and I half wish I was back at the hotel.”

Another quarter of an hour passed, and Frank arose to walk to a spot
several yards away, and thus obtain a different view of the hay-stack,
which was all of two hundred feet back in the meadow lot.

Scarcely had he walked a rod when a shadow crossed his shoulder.

He wheeled about to see what was there, but no one was in sight.

What did it mean? Had a night bird swept near, or had he merely
imagined the shadow there?

He grasped the club a little tighter, and listened with strained ears.
A faint crackling sound reached him, coming from a distance but a few
feet away.

Again he swung around. A form leaped directly before him, the form of
James Casco.

“Casco!”

“You are right, Landes. So you are following me again.”

“I am following this time, yes. Stop where you are.”

“What do you mean?”

“Move another step, and you will be sorry for it.”

And Frank drew his empty pistol, and pointed it.

Casco was somewhat dismayed, but only for a second. Then he rushed at
Frank.

At the same instant came a whip-poor-will cry. In the excitement,
however, the young man did not notice it.

Casco rushed in, and knocked up Frank’s weapon, at the same time
uttering the same whistle he had used on the hotel piazza.

Knowing that this was a call for help, Frank tried to run away. Casco
promptly tripped him up and then came down on the young man.

“Do you give in?” he demanded.

“No,” returned Frank, firmly.

Without ado the scar-faced man brought down his club upon Frank’s head.
It was a vicious blow, well directed, and with a groan the young man
fell back insensible.

“He’ll not worry me again, I reckon,” muttered Casco, as he surveyed
the inanimate form before him. “I suppose I might as well go through
him now I have the chance. By Jove, this is starting on the new career
for certain! No backing out after this.”

Casco bent over Frank’s form, and began a rapid search of his victim’s
pockets. He brought to light a roll of bills amounting to seventy
dollars, a number of letters and documents, and several things of less
importance.

“A pretty good haul,” muttered the thief.

Just then the bushes parted, and one of the men wearing a slouch hat
came over the fence.

“Where are you, Casco?”

“Here, Barker, I’ve knocked him out.”

“Him? Who?”

“The fellow I had a row with at the hotel. I felt certain he must be
somewhere around here.”

“Humph! You seem to have a grudge against him.”

“I have. It was he exposed me in New York. I might have had that snap
yet if it hadn’t been for him.”

The man called Barker chuckled, as if what he had been told was a joke.

“What was his pockets worth?”

“Not much. A handful of change and these letters.”

“What will you do with him?”

“Throw him in the ditch, behind the bushes. They won’t find him so
easily.”

“All right.”

The two caught up the limp body, and, taking it to the ditch, threw it
in.

In the mean time Bob had crawled along the ditch to a point almost
directly behind the hay-stack. It was so dark here that he could see
but little, but his ears were on the alert and, by listening intently,
he made out the faint murmur of voices.

He could not make out what was said, and, after waiting for several
minutes, he ventured a couple of yards closer.

Then he beheld the two men in slouch hats in low but earnest
conversation. Casco was nowhere to be seen.

Making sure that he was not discovered, Bob drew still closer to learn,
if possible, what had become of the scar-faced man.

“Well, Grogan, what do you think of Casco’s plan?” he heard one of the
men say.

“Sure, an’ Oi think it purty bould, Barker,” replied Grogan, who
was undoubtedly an Irishman. “’Tis a foine way to make money widout
workin’.”

“It’s not so fine if you get caught,” replied Barker. “To my mind it’s
rather risky.”

“Sure, an’ how could it be? If Casco gits in wid the----”

“Hush! What’s that?”

Barker sprang up from his bed on the hay.

“Phat did yez hear?” demanded Grogan, in alarm.

“I heard some kind of a noise.”

“Perhaps ’tis Casco comin’ back.”

Barker looked around, and Bob did his best to keep out of sight. His
foot had struck a dry stick, which had snapped in two, making quite a
loud report.

The two men went on talking, but Bob caught only a few words to the
effect that inside of a week Casco would have some plan ready in all
its details.

“They are up to no good,” thought Bob. “I think their talk means
robbery on a large scale and nothing else.”

Presently from the road came a sharp whistle. Barker again jumped up.

“It’s a signal from Casco,” he said. “Something is wrong. Look around
here, while I go and see what it is.”

He hurried off. Grogan sprang up a moment later, and almost immediately
sighted Bob lying in the long grass.

“Who be yez?” he demanded, pouncing upon the youth.

Bob at once gave his whip-poor-will signal to warn Frank.

“Stand where you are, you rascal,” he said to Grogan.

“Bad cess to yez!” cried the Irishman. “Do yez think Oi’m to be
overpowered by a b’y? Indade not.”

He rushed at Bob, and a desperate struggle ensued.




CHAPTER IV

BOB IS LEFT TO HIS FATE


Bob was strong for his age, but his strength was nothing compared with
that of Mike Grogan, who now faced the intrepid youth.

The Irishman was every inch of six feet in height, and, as he towered
in front of Bob, it looked as if he would crush the boy.

As he closed in he struck out at Bob several times, but the youth
ducked and dodged and not a blow took effect.

Then the Irishman tried new tactics. He pretended to run, and, when Bob
followed, he turned swiftly and caught the youth by the waist.

“Now I have yez!” cried Grogan. “How do ye loike that, me b’y?”

He threw Bob on the ground, and kicked him heavily in the side. The
youth attempted to scramble up, but the Irishman kicked him again, and
then Bob was glad enough to lie still.

“’Tis the same b’y we met at Fitt’s hotel,” muttered Grogan, as he
looked closer at Bob. “Phat brought yez here?” he demanded.

“That’s my business,” returned Bob, with a gasp. Besides bruising him
severely, the kicks had taken all the wind out of him.

“Is it?” said Grogan, sarcastically. “Mebbe Oi’ll make it moine, too.
Lie where yez are, onless yez would rather be kicked to death.”

“What do you propose to do with me?” demanded Bob.

“Yez will see when the toime comes.”

“You have no right to keep me here.”

Grogan gave a chuckle.

“’Tis not the loikes of you to be tellin’ me phat Oi kin do, moind
that. Phat’s yer name?”

“Bob Alden. Does that make you feel any better?”

“Do yez belong up to the hotel?”

“No.”

“Yez got yerself into a foine pickle whin yez put up against me an’ the
others.”

“You had no right to attack my friend,” returned Bob, warmly. “It’s a
pity we didn’t capture you then and there.”

“Shut up! Oi want no more from ye.”

Grogan began to get angry, and, seeing he could gain nothing by keeping
up the conversation, Bob became silent.

The youth wondered what had become of Frank Landes. Had he fallen into
the hands of Casco or Barker?

“It looks like it,” thought Bob. “I wish I could get away from this
chap, and find out for certain.”

He looked up at Grogan, who still stood over him, smoking a short clay
pipe and glaring down at him. The Irishman seemed to read his thought.

“Yez can’t git away, and yez had better not troy,” he said, savagely.

“Go for him, Bill!” exclaimed Bob, to an imaginary person behind Grogan.

The ruse worked well. Mike Grogan turned, with a startled air, to
confront the person he supposed was about to attack him. On the instant
Bob jumped to his feet. His side felt fearfully sore, but to this he
paid no attention.

“Shtop!” roared Grogan, as soon as he realized that he had been imposed
upon.

But instead of stopping, Bob dashed for the fence which lined the lane.
Grogan came after him at the top of his speed. But the boy was the
better runner of the two, and he reached the fence fully twenty feet
ahead of the Irishman.

Bob vaulted over with a single bound. His intention was to run up the
lane and join Frank, if possible.

But as he went over the fence his hopes were crushed before his feet
touched the ground on the other side. He fell plump into the hands of
Casco and Barker, who were just returning from casting Landes into the
ditch some distance away.

“Ha! who’s this?” cried Casco. “That boy, as I live!”

“What boy?” asked Barker.

“Landes’ friend. Catch him!”

Barker caught Bob by one arm, and, running up, the scar-faced man
caught him by the other. Bob tried to break away, but found it useless.

“Hold him tight, Barker. I’ll bind his hands behind him.”

“What for?”

“I have reasons. Hold him. That’s it.”

Casco produced a bit of strong cord, and with it bound Bob’s hands
together tightly.

“Now come along, and don’t make any noise,” he said to the youth.

“Where to?”

“To that hay-stack over there.”

“I won’t go. What have you been doing out here on the road?”

“Nothing,” returned Casco, in pretended surprise, and he pinched
Barker’s arm to make his companion keep silent.

Bob was about to question them concerning Frank. But he thought it
possible Landes had gotten away, and such questions might spoil any
chance of rescue as well as the capture of the trio.

Seeing he could not help himself, Bob at last went over the fence,
and with Casco on one side and Barker on the other marched to the
hay-stack, Grogan bringing up the rear, with a club in hand, ready to
strike at the first sign of rebellion.

“Now we will sift this matter to the bottom,” said Casco, as he came to
a halt. “You are Frank Landes’ friend, are you not?”

“I am,” returned Bob.

“What has become of Landes?”

And Casco poked Barker in the ribs on the sly.

“I don’t know.”

“Was he with you?”

“That is my affair.”

“Answer me.”

Bob remained silent. Casco pretended to get very angry, but at last
simmered down.

“He sez his name is Bob Alden,” put in Grogan.

“What’s that!” demanded Barker, in intense surprise.

Bob looked at him, and saw that the man was very pale, and evidently
under strong excitement.

“Is your name Bob Alden?” he demanded, facing the youth.

“It is.”

“Did you use to live with old Thompson?”

“I did. But I don’t remember you,” returned Bob, growing interested.

“I suppose not. Where have you been since Thompson died?”

“I lived with a farmer named Joel Carrow.”

“What are you doing now?”

“Answering questions,” returned the youth, with a faint smile.

“I want none of your jokes,” growled Barker. “Do you work for a living?”

“I expect to, just as soon as I can get a job.”

“Are you on the road?”

“I’m walking to Stampton, if that’s what you mean.”

“Humph!”

“How did you fall in with Landes?” put in James Casco.

“He took my part when Carrow wanted to whip me, and I’m helping him
take pictures in return for my board on the road.”

The men ceased asking questions, and Casco and Barker walked a short
distance away, leaving Grogan on guard.

“It’s a surprise, and no mistake,” said Barker, in a low tone. “I was
sure the boy had gone West. Thompson’s relatives said so.”

“Is the old matter settled up?” questioned the scar-faced man.

“Almost. But there might be more money in it,” mused Barker. “Say, I
have a plan.”

“What is it?”

“I wonder if we could get the boy to join us?”

“Not likely.”

“Why not? The promise of big money might fetch him.”

“He looks too honest. Still, you might sound him. Only if he refuses,
what then? You won’t dare to let him go.”

“I won’t give him much information till I am sure of him,” rejoined
Barker.

Bob could not make out what the two men said, but from their actions he
felt certain they were conversing about him.

“Say, boy!” demanded Barker, coming up. “Have you any offer of work at
Stampton when you reach there?”

“No.”

“You’ll find it mighty hard getting a job.”

“Perhaps I will. But that’s none of your affair.”

“Don’t get saucy. I thought, perhaps, you might like to leave Landes
and join us.”

“What at?”

“A little private business we’re working.”

“Does it pay?”

“You bet it does.”

“Do you work hard?”

“Not at all.”

“Then I’m afraid it wouldn’t suit me. I’ve been used to hard work,
and, if I knocked off, it might hurt me.”

Barker was enraged at this cool reply, and he would have struck Bob in
the head had not Casco held him back.

“I told you how it would be,” said the scar-faced man. “He is too
particular for this crowd.”

“Maybe not,” said Bob, who was anxious to learn what were the plans of
the gang. “Tell me the work, and I may join.”

“Can you keep your mouth shut?” asked Casco.

“I can when I have to.”

“We are going to get rich by a bold move,” said Barker. “We intend to
make twenty thousand dollars in one night, and----”

“Barker, don’t be a fool!” cried Casco, angrily.

“’Tis bad to tell the b’y that,” grumbled Grogan.

“I know what I’m doing,” returned Barker. “Will you help us make it?”

“You intend to rob somebody, eh?” said Bob, with flashing eyes.

“We intend to get twenty thousand dollars. Will you join us, and take
your share?”

“No. I am not a thief.”

“That may be. But your father would have jumped at the chance,”
returned Barker, coolly.

“My father? Did you know my father?” cried Bob, in astonishment.

“I did. He and I were old friends.”

“Tell me about him. Where is he?”

“Dead, long ago.”

“And my mother?”

“Dead also.”

Bob took a long breath. Was this man telling the truth?

“And you say my father would have jumped at a chance like this?” he
said, slowly.

“Yes. He and I worked many a little game together, and never got
caught, either. You had better join us, and I will show you all the
ropes. It beats working hard all to bits.”

“You are an infernal scamp!” burst out Bob. “Tell me my father was a
thief? If I were loose I would--would--pulverize you. If you knew my
father at all, it must have been at some time when he found you out and
exposed you.”

Barker drew back as if shot. Evidently Bob’s last remark had struck
home. He breathed hard, and glared at the youth.

“You don’t know when you’re well off,” he cried. “I offer you the best
possible chance to make money, and you refuse.”

“I never trained with thieves,” returned Bob, stoutly.

“Oi’ll fix yez fer that!” cried Grogan. “B’ys, Oi have a plan!” he said
to the others.

“Shove him into the hay-stack,” cried Barker. “He’s as stubborn as his
father was,” he added, in a lower tone. “I’ll fix him later.”

The three caught up the youth, and shoved him into an opening on one
side of the stack.

“Come on,” Barker cried to the others. “We have just about time to do
that other work, and get away before morning.”

The three villains hurried from the scene, leaving Bob to his fate.

They had gone but a few minutes, when the boy smelt smoke. He looked
around. Grogan had knocked out his pipe, and the burning tobacco had
set fire to the hay directly behind him!




CHAPTER V

BOB MAKES HIS ESCAPE


For the moment Bob could not realize his awful peril, but when he saw
the tiny flame feeding on the loose hay, and creeping steadily toward
him, he gave a cry of horror.

The flame became stronger each instant, and as it grew it advanced with
increased rapidity.

“I will be burned alive!” groaned the youth.

He tried to roll from the place in which he had been shoved, but Barker
had tied him to a pole in the centre of the hay-stack, and he found it
impossible to free himself.

“Help! help!” he cried.

No answer came back to his appeal. The spot was out of sight of any
house, and it was more than likely that the fire would be well under
way before being discovered by any outsider.

“If only Frank would come,” thought Bob. “He ought to be somewhere
about.”

Little did the youth dream that his friend was at that moment lying at
the bottom of the ditch. The blow upon Frank’s head had been a severe
one, and when Barker and Casco left him they expected he would not
very soon recover.

The flames near the stack were now mounting higher, and suddenly a puff
of wind carried them directly toward Bob, and the youth was almost
immediately surrounded by fire.

“I’m a goner now!” moaned Bob.

The fire ate its way swiftly toward the youth’s back--it touched his
hands--and he shrieked with pain.

The smoke was thick, and it not only blinded him, but choked him as
well.

Bob was almost overcome when the wind shifted and carried the flames
another way.

He began another desperate struggle, and at last succeeded in freeing
one hand, although in so doing he tore a large portion of the skin from
his wrist.

“Now or never,” he muttered, desperately. “I must get free before the
wind shifts back, or I’ll be a goner.”

He tugged at his other hand, but the cord held and the knot refused to
budge.

“Help! help!” he cried again, at the top of his lungs.

He had hardly uttered the words before the wind swerved around, and
once more the flames and smoke surrounded him.

“Hullo there!” came faintly from the darkness beyond.

“Help!” cried Bob again.

His throat was almost choked, and his mouth was parched.

“Where are you?”

“In the hay-stack. Save me, I am tied fast!”

“By Jove! I’m coming!”

An instant passed and then through the smoke appeared a swaying form
that seemed every moment to be on the verge of collapsing.

“Bob!”

“Frank! Save me, quick!”

“What’s the trouble?”

“I am tied to this pole,” moaned Bob. “Quick, cut the cord, or I’ll be
burnt up!”

Frank drew out his knife, and opened it. Two slashes, and Bob was free.
With one mad leap he jumped from the burning stack to the open space
beyond. Frank followed, and both were safe, while a sudden puff caught
the flames and sent them upward with a roar.

“In the nick of time,” burst out Bob. “Just look at that wrist, and I
know my neck is blistered.”

“I am glad I arrived when I did,” returned Frank. “I suppose the same
rascals tied you----”

He stopped short. Bob saw him reel, and, springing forward, he caught
the young man in his arms.

“Fainted, by jinks!” exclaimed the youth. “And his neck is covered
with blood. They must have attacked him, too.”

Bob laid Frank flat on his back, and began to fan him with his cap.
While he was doing this, two men, evidently father and son, rushed up.

“Here, what be yeou a-doin’ here?” demanded the elder, savagely.

“We didn’t set the stack on fire,” returned Bob.

“Thet’s well enough fer yeou to say,” went on the younger. “Git up
there,” this to Frank.

“He can’t get up,” replied Bob.

“Why not?”

“He has fainted.”

“What were yeou doin’ in the stack?” demanded the elder.

“Nothing. I was tied there by three men, and one set the stack on fire
from his pipe.”

“By gum!” ejaculated the younger.

“Thet’s a likely story. Guess we can’t save it, Ruel, anyhow.”

“’Tain’t likely, dad. Thet hay is lost, sure.”

“It’s these fellers’ faults,” grumbled the father. “They most likely
went to sleep smokin’ in it, an’ thet’s how it caught.” He grabbed Bob
by the arm. “Yeou cum along o’ me.”

“It’s not my fault. Let go,” returned Bob. “Look at that wrist! And my
friend has been struck in the back of the head. You had better help me
carry him to some house and get a doctor. He is no tramp, but a guest
over to Fitt’s hotel.”

At these words the farmer let go his hold and scratched his head.

“Wall, I dunno. Who be yeou?”

“Never mind that. This young man is Frank Landes. Perhaps you have
heard of him. He comes around here occasionally.”

“Frank Landes! By gum, so it is! He’s with a New York commission house.
Wall, thet’s different, o’ course it is. But who sot the hay afire?”

“Three men named Casco, Barker, and Grogan.”

“I don’t know ’em.”

“They are a bad set. But come, help me with Frank. You can’t do
anything with that hay. It’s all smoked through, and the cattle won’t
touch it.”

“Thet’s so. Where shall we take him?”

“How far is your house?”

“Jess tudder side o’ thet hill.”

“Then we might as well take him there,” said Bob.

The three raised up the limp body, and carried it to the farmer’s
house. Half a dozen neighbors, who had been attracted by the blaze,
came up and followed.

Ruel Dalmer--that was the son’s name--set off for the nearest doctor
on his buckboard, and it was not long before a physician arrived.

Just before he entered, Bob, who was standing over Frank, doing all in
his power to make the young man comfortable, had the satisfaction of
seeing the blood-shot eyes open and heard a faint gasp.

“Thank fortune, he’s coming around,” murmured the youth. “His injuries
are much worse than mine.”

The physician at once went to work. He sewed up the cut in the back of
Frank’s head, and gave the young man a strengthening potion.

“All he needs now is plenty of rest,” said the physician. “It is an
ugly wound, but by no means a serious one. Nevertheless, had it come an
inch farther up the young man would have been killed.”

“He can’t be moved, can he?” asked Bob.

“Not for a day or two.”

“He can stay here a week,” said the elder Dalmer. “I did not know it
was Landes at first, or I wouldn’t have been so rough.”

They left Frank lying on a bed in the spare room, and then Bob followed
the others below, and there told his story, starting with the meeting
between Frank and Casco at the hotel.

“I heard about that affair only an hour ago,” said the doctor. “And so
those are the men who attacked you both?”

“They are.”

“They oughter be in jail!” cried old Dalmer. “Sech rascals ain’t fit to
be loose.”

The doctor was about to leave, when a wagon dashed up to the house. It
contained two men, one of whom jumped down and rapped sharply on the
door.

“What’s up, John?” demanded Dalmer, opening the door at once.

“Our house has been robbed, and we want help to catch the robbers,” was
the startling reply.

Of course, every one was astonished. Bob sprang to his feet.

“I’ll wager anything it was Casco, Barker, and Grogan did it,” he
exclaimed.

“Wot makes yeou think thet?” questioned the elder Dalmer.

“Because they spoke of having just time enough to accomplish something.
They robbed the house, and are now getting away as fast as they can.”

“I’m going after them, and I’ll catch ’em, too, just as sure as my
name is John Wright,” exclaimed the man who had made the announcement.
“Who’ll go along?”

“I can’t go,” said the man who had driven up with Wright.

“I’ll go after them,” said Bob. “I owe those fellows one.”

“An’ I’ll go, too,” put in Ruel Dalmer. “They’ll find out they can’t
fire our hay-stack fer nuthin’, by gosh!”

So a party of three was hastily formed, and they drove off in John
Wright’s wagon at a breakneck speed.

“Have you any idea what direction the robbers took?” questioned Bob, on
the way.

“I reckon they cut toward Stampton,” said Wright. “We’ll see if they
have learned anything new up to the house.”

When they reached Wright’s home, they found everything in confusion.

An entrance had been effected through a dining-room window, and the
entire lower floor ransacked.

In one closet Mrs. Wright had had a quantity of silverware. This was
gone, and with it a table spread in which the robbers had most likely
tied up this part of their booty.

An old desk stood in a corner of the sitting-room. This desk held
Wright’s private papers and also his strong box. It had been skilfully
unlocked, and both the box and many of the documents were gone.

“And the box contained eighteen hundred dollars in cash,” said John
Wright. “Plague take the luck! I ought to hev took that money to the
Stampton bank.”

Bob began to look around carefully. Presently he stopped and picked up
something lying on the floor near the looted desk. It was a short clay
pipe.

“That settles it,” he said, holding up the article. “That is the same
pipe Grogan was smoking.”

“You are sure?” questioned Wright.

“Yes. We had better get after them without delay.”

“But which way?”

“Ye-as, we can’t go after ’em unless we know thet,” put in Ruel Dalmer.

“I suppose they went out the way they came,” said Bob. “Let us see if
we cannot trace them from the dining-room window.”

An extra lamp was procured by Mrs. Wright, who was shedding copious
tears over her loss, and a minute examination of the ground outside of
the window took place.

“The steps lead off in that direction,” said Bob, pointing toward a
road which ran to the south of the house. “Come on!”

By the aid of a lantern they followed the foot-prints to the road.

“And from here they went straight to Stampton,” said Wright. “I wonder
if they had a horse and wagon.”

“No, they didn’t!” shouted Bob, from the other side of the road. “They
crossed to here and struck out for the woods.”

Wright and Dalmer came over, and both agreed that the youth was right.
The foot-prints could be seen plainly.

“We’ll have no difficulty in following them,” said Bob. “I suppose you
are both armed?”

Wright said he had a pistol. Ruel Dalmer had a stout club, and declared
he wanted no better weapon.

“Jess give me a whack at ’em with this, an’ I’ll knock the daylights
clean outer ’em,” he observed, as he grasped the club more firmly than
ever.

“They are desperate men,” said Bob. “They would not hesitate to shoot,
if cornered. I intend to take no chances.”

“It’s a pity it ain’t day instead o’ night,” observed Wright. “I reckon
it’s pitch dark in the woods.”

“The moon is coming up,” said Bob. “That will soon help us. Let us go
forward and make as little noise as possible.”

Without further words, the three left the road and entered the belt of
timber beyond. Here the ground was soft, and the tracks made by the
robbers were plainly visible for a distance of several hundred feet.

“Maybe they crossed to the Shanover turnpike,” suggested Wright. “They
might do that, and throw us off the track.”

“We’ll soon find out,” returned Bob.

Deeper and deeper they went into the timber, until at length they came
to a small stream, both sides of which were covered with rocks.

Here, of course, the tracks made by the robbers could not be followed,
and the searchers came to a halt.

“Stuck,” said Dalmer, laconically. “Wot’s ter do now?”

“We had better separate,” said Bob. “Supposing one of you go up the
brook, one down, and I will cross and see if I can’t hit the trail in
the wood beyond.”

“All right, that’s a good plan,” said Wright. “I’ll be the one to go
down stream.”

He turned in the direction. Ruel Dalmer started in the opposite
direction, and Bob was left alone.

The moon had now risen, and a faint light stole through the timber,
broken here and there by heavy shadows. A boy less brave than Bob might
have shivered at the uncanny situation, but Bob did not know what fear
was. He had seen too much of the seamy side of life for that.

Jumping from one rock to another, he crossed the stream and plunged
boldly ahead. He had a fair idea of the direction of the Shanover
turnpike, and thought he could do no better than make directly for it.

“For that is what those chaps did, if they were bound this way,” he
reasoned.

Less than half an hour later Bob came to a large mass of rocks, covered
with trailing vines and moss. He paused for a second, and as he did so
a peculiar sound came to his ears.

“What was that?” the youth asked himself. “It sounded like a man’s foot
slipping on a wet stone.”

Bob listened intently, but the sound was not repeated, and after
waiting a full minute the youth began to move forward again.

He passed to the end of the rocks, and struck out for the turnpike,
which he knew was now not five minutes’ walk ahead.

Suddenly a dark object seemed to loom up directly in his path. It was
the form of a man. In a moment more the boy made out the figure of John
Wright.

“Do you know where the robbers went?” asked Wright.

“No.”

“I sent word over to Stampton and to Shanover, and the police are now
on the villains’ tracks.”

“Hope they catch them,” muttered Bob. “They are the toughest crowd I
ever heard of.”

“That’s so. But the chief of police of Stampton assured me they
couldn’t escape. I suppose he knows how to run ’em down first clip.”

Bob had his doubts about the matter, but he did not express them. Yet
he hoped Wright spoke the truth.

He was anxious to interview Barker. What did the man know about him and
about his father?

“I’ll make him tell,” muttered Bob to himself. “And I’ll make him prove
what he says, too. I don’t intend to be a nobody any longer.”

Bob followed John Wright to his home. Here he was invited to partake of
breakfast, which he did willingly, for the events of the past hours had
sharpened his appetite.

Having finished the meal, Bob started back toward the Dalmer house,
to see how Frank Landes was progressing. He sincerely hoped his
newly-found friend would speedily recover from the injuries he had
received.

About half-way down the road he espied a rickety turn-out approaching.
He thought he knew the rig, and he was not mistaken.

It was Joel Carrow’s turn-out, and on the seat sat the miserly farmer,
looking meaner than ever.

“I wonder what he’ll do when he sees me?” thought Bob.

Joel Carrow’s horse approached on a slow trot, and the farmer was not
long in espying the youth.

Bob eyed him sharply, as he stepped aside to let the wagon pass. He
was about to speak, but changed his mind.

“What are yer doin’ here, yer young whelp?” was Carrow’s salutation, as
he pulled up.

“Are you speaking to me?” asked Bob, coolly.

“Who else would I be speaking to, you rat!”

“Thanks for your kind expressions. What I am doing is none of your
business.”

“I hear Wright’s house was robbed last night,” went on Carrow,
meaningly.

“Well?”

“I was goin’ ter ride over an’ see. It’s more’n like you hed sumthin’
ter do with it.”

Bob laughed at this.

“You’re crazy, Mr. Carrow,” he said. “Just because you and I can’t
hitch, I suppose you think I’m the worst boy in the State.”

“So yer be! So yer be! An’ don’t yer call me crazy!” shouted Carrow,
getting angry.

“Then keep your opinions to yourself. Nobody asked you for them, and
they are not wanted.”

“Don’t give me any o’ yer sass!”

“Then don’t call me hard names.”

“I’ll do as I please. I ain’t ter be talked to by no boy!” howled
Carrow.

“Did you catch the pigs?” questioned Bob, in a teasing manner.

“I’ll pig you!”

“How about that hot-bed? It must have cost a nice penny to put all that
glass back.”

“Shut up!”

Carrow was in a fearful rage. He could not stand being chaffed.

“Say another word, an’ I’ll skin yer alive!” he roared.

“Another word,” returned Bob promptly, “You are on too good terms with
yourself. Leave me alone, and I’ll leave you alone.”

“I’ll leave you alone,” snarled the farmer. “How do yer like thet, you
scamp!”

He pulled his whip from the socket, swung the end in the air, and
brought the lash down on Bob’s back.

The blow was a heavy one, and it hurt. Bob sprang back, his eyes
blazing like stars.

“What did you do that for?” he demanded.

“Ter teach you a lesson.”

“Come down off of that seat.”

“What fer?”

“Come down and I’ll show you.”

“I reckon I won’t accommodate ye!” returned Carrow, pulling up on his
reins. “Let thet be a lesson to yer!”

“If you don’t come down, I’ll throw this at you,” cried Bob.

He stooped as he spoke, and picked up a large, round stone.

“Don’t yer dare!” cried the farmer, in alarm.

“Then come down. You had no right to hit me with the whip, and I want
to settle with you.”

Carrow looked at the determined youth, and grew just a bit nervous. He
knew Bob was a good shot with a stone, and he did not fancy getting
such a missile in the head.

“Do you want me to give you more of the whip?” he asked, but in a
milder tone.

“Never mind. Come down.”

Instead of complying, Carrow spoke to his horse. The animal took a step
forward, but Bob promptly stopped him.

“Let go the hoss!” cried the farmer.

“I won’t, and, what is more, I want you to come down. I’ll give you
just half a minute to do it in.”

Carrow hesitated and then jumped to the ground, wondering what would
come next.

He still held the whip in one hand. Rushing up, Bob wrenched it from
his grasp.

“Turn about is fair play,” cried Bob. “How do you like that?”

He hauled off and swish! the lash swept across Carrow’s face, leaving a
deep red stripe behind.

“Ough!” shrieked the farmer, dancing around with pain. “I’ll have you
arrested for that!”

“I am not afraid of you,” returned the youth, as coolly as he could. “I
hope this teaches you a lesson.”

Carrow grew white with rage. That boy had dared to hit him with a whip,
and in the face, too! It was shameful!

He looked around for some means of getting the best of Bob. Suddenly
his eye caught sight of a pitchfork which lay in the back of the wagon.
He made a dash, and secured the pitchfork. Then, handling it as if it
were a bayonet, he rushed upon the youth.




CHAPTER VI

BOB LEARNS SOMETHING


As a matter of course, Bob retreated. He had no desire to be punctured
with the points of the pitchfork--those tines looked altogether too
ugly.

Joel Carrow rushed after Bob, making several lunges, whenever he
thought he saw a chance of reaching the youth.

“Stop it!” cried Bob, when he had retreated a hundred feet or more.
“Stop it, or you will be sorry.”

“So yer afraid, are you?” snarled Carrow.

He made another lunge, and had not Bob jumped to one side, the tines
would have entered his body. The youth watched his chance, and doubled
on the farmer. The wagon was a good bit up the road, and, running to
it, he jumped in.

“Hi! Stop there!” cried Carrow, in alarm.

“Good-by, old freckles!” returned Bob.

He turned the horse’s head, and before the farmer could reach him
started off at a lively gait, leaving Carrow standing in the middle of
the road, shaking his fist in impotent rage.

Bob fully understood the horse he was driving, and he made good time
to Dalmer’s place.

Jumping off here, he tied the reins to the dash-board and started the
horse off, feeling certain that the animal would go straight home.

Entering the house, he found Frank Landes sitting up in an easy-chair.

“Hullo, Bob! so you’ve come back! Mr. Dalmer thought you had followed
those rascals to Stampton, or some other place.”

Such was Frank’s salutation, and Bob saw at a glance that the young man
was much better.

“I wish I had been able to follow them,” returned the youth, and,
sitting down, he related the particulars of the useless search.

Frank shook his head slowly.

“That’s the end of them, mark my word.”

“I’m afraid you’re right,” returned Bob. “They are sly as well as bad.
How do you feel?”

“Much better. I think I can start out again by to-morrow morning. How
is your wrist and back?”

“Mighty sore, but I reckon I’ll pull through,” and Bob grinned. “I’m
tough, you know.”

Bob remained with Frank for an hour. During this time he saw Joel
Carrow tramp past, pitchfork in hand, and looking the picture of
sourness. He laughed, and told his companion of the incident on the
road.

“He ought to be dressed down,” said Frank. “But, Bob.”

“Well?”

“I wish you would go over to the hotel and get our traps. I haven’t a
cent with me. Luckily I left some money in the satchel. Settle with the
landlord, and tell him we intend to stay here to-night. Mrs. Dalmer
says she will accommodate us.”

“All right, Frank. But----” and Bob hesitated.

“But what?”

“It’s asking too much of you to keep me a whole day for nothing, and
those fellows cleaned me out when they caught me at the hay-stack----”

“That’s all right. You are to stay with me until we reach Stampton,
even if we don’t get there until six weeks, and I’m to settle the
bills. Don’t say no, or I’ll get angry.”

“Thanks! I wouldn’t make you mad for the world,” and Bob made off
without further words.

It did not take the youth long to reach the half-way house. He secured
all of Frank’s effects as well as his own bundle, and remained for a
while talking to Fitt about the robbers.

“It’s a pity they weren’t caught,” said the hotel-keeper. “I believe
they are a regularly organized gang and nothing less.”

“Perhaps they are. You haven’t seen any trace of them around here, have
you?”

“I had a sort of an idea I saw one of them sneaking around early this
morning, but I guess I must have been mistaken,” answered the landlord.

Before leaving the hotel, Bob had occasion to go up-stairs, wishing to
make sure that nothing belonging to Frank had been left behind.

As he passed through the main corridor, he saw a tall, slim man pass
hurriedly to one side and slip into a room the youth knew was vacant.

The actions of the fellow were so peculiar that Bob could not help
noticing them, and the more he thought over the matter, the more he
became convinced that the slim man was up to no good.

“I’ll watch him for a few minutes and make sure,” said Bob to himself.

He entered the room Frank and he had occupied, and from a crack of the
door looked out into the vacant corridor.

A minute passed. Then he saw the slim man emerge from the apartment in
which he had sought shelter, and cross to a room opposite.

The door of the room was locked, but the man inserted something, which
Bob thought was a wire, into the key-hole, and at once passed inside.

“That’s queer,” said the youth to himself. “I think I’ll investigate a
bit further.”

Leaving his room, he tiptoed his way down the corridor until he came to
the room which the man had just entered. The door had been closed from
the inside, and, by turning the handle gently, Bob discovered that it
had also been fastened.

The catch had been turned so that the key-hole was still clear. Bending
down, Bob peered through this small aperture.

He could not see a great deal, but he saw enough to convince him that
the man was rummaging through a bureau. He had all the drawers open,
and was going through them with a dexterity that showed he was no
novice at this work.

“A hotel sneak-thief,” thought Bob. “Gracious! what a lot of robbing
there is going on!”

He scanned the face of the man carefully. The fellow was a stranger and
where he had come from the youth could not conjecture.

Bob concluded that the best thing he could do would be to call up the
landlord, and place the case in his charge. Yet he was afraid to leave
the corridor for fear the man would get away before he could return.

At that moment the man left the bureau, and walked to one of the
windows.

“Hullo! she is coming back,” Bob heard him mutter.

Then, stuffing a number of articles into his coat-pockets, the man
rushed to the door and flung it open.

He was astonished to come face to face with Bob.

“Who--what--” he stammered, and tried to pass the youth. But Bob
blocked his way.

“What were you doing in that room?” demanded the youth.

“What’s that?” came from the man.

“You heard what I said.”

“That room is mine, sir.”

“Really! I thought it belonged to a lady.”

“You mean my wife.”

The sneak-thief spoke so coolly that for the instant Bob was taken
aback.

“Is she your wife?”

“Certainly. Let me pass,” and again the man attempted to push Bob aside.

“What makes you in such a hurry?” and Bob placed his hand on the slim
man’s arm.

“You are tremendously impudent!” cried the sneak-thief, putting on an
air of importance.

“Thank you. Just you come down to the office with me.”

“I’ll do nothing of the kind. The idea of a boy, a mere boy, speaking
to me in this fashion! Get out of my way, before I knock you down.”

And he drew back as if to attack Bob.

“Help! thief! help!” cried Bob, at the top of his voice.

“Stop that racket, you fool!” muttered the slim man.

He tried to catch Bob by the throat, but, failing in this, made a dash
to get away.

Near the head of the stairs stood the traps belonging to Frank and Bob.
The corridor was but dimly lighted, and the fellow did not see them.

“Stop the thief!” went on Bob.

There was a commotion below. The man heard it, and ran harder than ever.

At the top of the stairs he tripped over the camera, tripod, and
satchel, and sneak-thief and photographic outfit rolled to the bottom
together. Then came a greater commotion than ever.

“What’s the row?”

“Mercy! the house must be coming down!”

“Stop that man!” yelled Bob. “He is a thief!”

At this there was a shriek from several women.

Fitt and another man rushed forward and grabbed the slim man by the
arms just as he was rising to his feet.

“Let me go!” cried the sneak-thief. “That boy is crazy.”

“No, I’m not. He’s been ransacking one of the bureaus in Room 14,”
returned Bob.

“My room!” cried an elderly lady. “And I left my jewels in the middle
drawer. Oh, the rascal! Hold him tight!”

By this time Bob had reached the lower landing. Quite a crowd began to
collect. The youth picked up the camera, and stood it out of the way
of further harm, and then faced the sneak-thief, who looked decidedly
uncomfortable.

“This is all a mistake, gentlemen,” he said. “That boy is the thief.”

“What?”

“Yes. I caught him with these jewels in his pocket. He tried hard to
escape, and when he found he could not, he raised the cry you heard.”

The crowd looked from the slim man to Bob.

“That’s not true!” cried Bob. “I saw this man acting rather strangely
and I watched him. He picked the lock of the door, and----”

“Tut, tut!” put in the sneak-thief. “Why, boy, do you know who I am?”

“I don’t care if you are the President. You stole those jewels, and you
know it.”

“I am Senator Briscoe from the West, looking up my interest in the
T. W. & L. Railroad. To say I am a sneak-thief is preposterous. I am
afraid,” went on the pretended senator, with a wave of his hand, “that
this youth is not quite right in his mind. Landlord, do you know him?”

“Yes, I do,” returned Fitt. “And I don’t know you,” he added,
suspiciously.

“I can refer you to President Maverick of the railroad. You are making
a sad mistake, and I must request you to let go of me.”

Fitt was rather a nervous man, and of a weak turn of mind. At these
smooth words he let go his hold, and so did the other man.

“I wouldn’t trust him,” said Bob, bluntly. “He may be a Senator, but he
is a thief, just the same, and--stop him!”

For without warning the slim man had made a dash through the crowd. He
reached the piazza, and, jumping into the road, made off as fast as his
long legs would carry him.

“After him!” shrieked the elderly woman. “He has my jewels still.”

She was right. Fitt had not taken the box the sneak-thief had produced,
and they were still in the slim man’s possession. Bob rushed after the
fellow. The others followed, but the youth was the better runner of the
two.

He caught up to the sneak-thief just as the latter was about to mount a
horse which stood a short distance from the hotel.

“Give me those jewels!” he cried.

The slim man paid no attention. He probably thought Bob was only a boy
and could do nothing.

Just as the man mounted the horse, Bob caught him by the side pocket
of his sack coat. The pocket was torn away, and out on the road tumbled
the jewel case.

Bob snatched it up. Seeing what had happened the slim man thought first
to dismount and try to recover the case, but Fitt and several others
were not far off, and he reconsidered the matter and galloped off at
top speed.

“Have you it?” gasped the landlord, anxiously.

“Yes,” and Bob held up the case. “I’ll return it to its owner,” he
added, as Fitt held out his hand for it.

The elderly woman soon appeared on the scene. She was overjoyed to
recover her valuables.

“Better see if they are all there,” suggested one of the crowd.

The woman opened the case, and made a hasty examination.

“All here but a small diamond and ruby cross,” she said, “and that, I
think, was not inside the case, but on a cushion in the top drawer.”

“Then that’s most likely a goner,” said Bob.

He accompanied the elderly woman to her room. Nothing was learned
concerning the cross, and she agreed with Bob that the sneak-thief must
have gotten away with it.

“But it was of small value in comparison to the contents of the case,”
added Mrs. Varley, for such was her name. “The jewels in the case are
worth five hundred dollars.”

“Then it’s a good thing that chap didn’t get away with them,” said Bob
with a smile.

“I must reward you for your service to me.”

“Don’t want any reward.”

“But you have earned it. I would have to pay a detective well to
recover them had that fellow gotten away with them. Here, take this,
with my sincere thanks.”

She handed Bob a bill. He glanced at it. It was for fifty dollars.

“You--you’ve made a mistake,” he said, with something like a gasp.

“How so?”

“This is a fifty-dollar bill.”

“Well?” smiled Mrs. Varley.

“You didn’t mean to give me that much, did you?”

She nodded.

“But it ain’t worth it--not by half. I didn’t do much.”

“Let me be the judge of that. Keep it, and I only hope it gives you as
much pleasure to receive it as it does me to give it.”

“Gee Christopher!” murmured Bob, surveying the crisp bill. “Fifty
dollars! Why, I never had so much money in my life before.”

Mrs. Varley laughed outright.

“Well, let us hope you’ll have a great deal more than that before you
are much older. What is your name?”

Bob told her, and quite a conversation ensued, broken by the entrance
of Fitt, who was still highly excited.

It was nearly half an hour later before Bob left the half-way house.
Mrs. Varley shook hands with him, and wished him luck, and he said he
hoped she would get back her diamond and ruby cross.

“If I ever meet that man again I’ll get it for you, or know the reason
why,” he added.

Frank Landes was surprised to learn what had kept Bob at the hotel so
long.

He listened attentively to the youth’s story.

“Did that slim man have a slight limp when he ran?” he asked.

“I imagine he did. Went this way,” and Bob illustrated as best he could
across the room floor.

“That’s it. He is known as Slippery Paul Bidwell in New York.”

“He was slippery, that’s a fact.”

“He is a professional crook, and lives altogether by his wits. It’s
greatly to your credit that you got the jewel case away from him.”

“It’s fifty dollars to my credit,” laughed Bob. “Say, do you know what
I’m going to do with that money?”

“I haven’t the slightest idea.”

“I’m going to ask you to buy a camera and outfit for me. I’ve been
thinking it over, and I don’t see why I can’t go around the country
taking pictures of houses and so on, and make some money.”

“You can if you learn the business,” returned Frank.

“Will you teach me?”

“I said I would show you all I know. But you ought to get some points
from a regular photographer.”

“I will,” returned Bob, with a sudden determination.

That evening Frank felt much stronger. He opened his outfit, got out
his trays and chemicals, and, by the aid of a ruby light, proceeded to
develop the pictures he had taken since Bob had been with him.

The youth was greatly interested, and watched every part of the process
closely. Both had a hearty laugh over the picture of Carrow plunging
into the hot-bed after the pigs.

“It’s awfully interesting,” declared Bob. “The glass seems to have
nothing on it, and the picture comes out as if by magic when you pour
the developing fluid on it.”

“Here is a first-class book on photography,” replied Frank. “You can’t
do better than study it closely. I will make you a present of it.”

Bob was delighted. He read a great part of the book before going
to bed, and it was astonishing how quick he caught the right idea
concerning the art he intended to make his own.

“I imagine you must have been born a photographer,” said Frank on the
following day, when the two were taking pictures. “You have learned
more in two days about the matter than I learned in a week.”

Frank was still very weak, so the taking of the pictures depended to a
great extent on Bob, and the youth rose fully equal to the occasion.

Before night came they took over a dozen views, and these they
developed at the farm-house at which they put up. One of the pictures
had not been exposed long enough, and Bob took his first lesson in
correcting this mistake.

“As soon as we get to Stampton, I’ll give you a practical lesson in
printing,” said Frank.

Early on the following morning they came upon a circus which was moving
from one city to the next. First came the wagons and chariots--the
latter covered over with canvas to protect the gold leaf from exposure
to the weather--and then followed a herd of elephants and another of
camels.

“By Jove! we must get pictures of these beasts!” cried Frank. “Quick,
Bob, get the camera into shape. They are stopping.”

Something was the matter with one of the wagons ahead, and a temporary
stoppage all along the line ensued.

Bob at once unslung the tripod and set it up. Then the camera was
placed on top, and both hastily sighted the instrument at the camels,
who were standing in a picturesque group.

In half a second the picture was taken.

“Now for the elephants,” said Frank. “Let us catch that big fellow in
front. He is looking directly toward us.”

“And he looks as if he didn’t like it,” added Bob. “See him swaying
from side to side.”

“By Jove! I believe you’re right,” cried the young man. “Gracious! he
is coming this way.”

Frank was right. Unobserved by his keeper, the huge beast was striding
toward them, his trunk high in the air.

“Look out!” yelled Bob. “Something is wrong.”

He had hardly uttered the warning, when the elephant let out a terrific
roar.

The next instant the camera was knocked over and smashed under foot.

And then with another roar the elephant made for Bob and Frank.




CHAPTER VII

BOB AND THE ELEPHANT


For the moment it looked as if Bob and Frank would be crushed under the
ponderous feet of the elephant. The beast was thoroughly enraged over
the way in which the smashed camera had been pointed at him. Possibly
he had never had his picture taken, and he did not understand it.
Perhaps he took the instrument for some new machine of destruction.

He trumpeted loudly as he came near to the two, and this noise
attracted the attention of the keepers, who had gone ahead to see what
had caused the delay on the road.

“Ho, ho!” shouted one of the men. “Ho, there, Jonco!”

But Jonco would not listen. He had now reached the spot where Bob and
Frank had stood, and was continuing after the two, who were scurrying
across the open field, which was close at hand.

The keepers at once started after the elephant, only one remaining
behind to keep the remainder of the herd in check.

“By Jove! I believe he means business!” gasped Frank.

“The best thing we can do is to get out of the way,” returned Bob.

They soon reached the end of the open field. Beyond were a mass of
brush and a number of small trees.

Frank dived into the brush and disappeared from sight. Bob was not so
fortunate, and the elephant continued after the youth, as if bent upon
venting his rage before giving up the chase.

At length Bob came to a clump of small trees, and darted among them.
They were so close together that he knew the beast could not get
between them, and for the moment he thought himself safe, although the
position was far from a pleasant one.

But when the elephant reached the trees, he at once threw his weight
against the foremost, and they went down with a crash, as if they had
been so many pipe-stems.

One of the falling trees struck Bob, and he was knocked flat on his
back. Before he could rise the elephant was upon him.

Bob did his best to scramble out of the way, but before he could do so
the beast caught him by the coat and hoisted the youth in the air.

By this time the keepers were close at hand. Each was armed with a
sharp steel, and they began to prod the elephant whenever they got the
chance.

He trumpeted at a great rate, but did not let go his hold upon Bob,
until the youth, under a sudden inspiration, hit him in the eye with
his fist.

This blow surprised the elephant more than it hurt him. But his
surprise made him uncurl his trunk and loosen his grip, and Bob lost no
time in leaping to a safe distance.

Then the keepers surrounded the beast, and swiftly and skilfully
chained his two right feet together and otherwise bound him; and the
danger was over.

Frank rushed from the brush to where Bob stood, pale as a sheet.

“Are you hurt?” he demanded, anxiously.

“No; but I don’t want to go through any such experience again,”
returned Bob. “That’s the first and last time I shall try to photograph
an elephant.”

“The camera is teetotally smashed,” went on Frank.

“Serves you right,” growled the head keeper. “If you hadn’t pointed the
thing at Jonco he would have been as quiet as a kitten. He don’t take
to strange things.”

Frank was about to say something concerning the damages, and who was to
stand them, but he changed his mind, for he knew the keeper was more
than half right.

It was not long before the circus moved on again. Jonco still acted
somewhat wildly, but the keepers kept him well in hand.

“This ends the camera trip,” said Frank, as the last of the equipage
passed out of sight around a bend in the road. “The camera is good for
kindling wood, and nothing else.”

“It is partly my fault,” said Bob. “What was the machine worth?”

“It cost me seventy dollars. But it was not your fault, Bob, so don’t
worry. I have another at home, even better than this.”

“Perhaps the lens isn’t injured.”

They made a hunt, and found the lens crushed in the soft dirt. There
was a tiny scratch upon it, but this, Frank thought, could be remedied.

Without further delay they struck out for Stampton, which they expected
to reach by the middle of the afternoon.

At twelve o’clock they found themselves near a moss-covered cottage, in
the door-way of which an old man sat smoking. Frank hailed him.

“What are the chances of our getting dinner here, friend, if we pay for
it?”

“The chances is mighty good,” returned the old man. “Mary!”

A middle-aged woman came to the door.

“What is it, pop?”

[Illustration: AND THEN WITH ANOTHER ROAR THE ELEPHANT MADE FOR BOB AND
FRANK.]

“These yere young men want dinner.”

“Oh!”

“Cost both of ye twenty cents apiece,” went on the old man.

“That’s fair enough,” said Frank. “Can we have it soon?”

“I will have it ready in quarter of an hour,” said the woman.

“That is time enough.”

The woman disappeared, and Frank and Bob sat down on a bench to rest.
They entered into conversation with the old man, and it was not long
before the talk drifted around to the Wright robbery, of which the old
man had just heard.

“They ain’t cotch them fellers yet, I hear,” he said. “It’s great pity.”

“That’s true. But perhaps they’ll be caught soon,” said Frank.

“Do yeou know I have an idee I saw them chaps?”

“Tell us of it,” put in Bob, eagerly.

“It wuz last night. I have rheumatics, an’ can’t sleep very well. I got
up about eleven o’clock ter rub some liniment on my leg, when I heard
talking goin’ on back by the barn. I listened fer a minit, an’ then
hollered out to fin’ out who wuz there.”

“Well, did you see them?”

“Yes. They didn’t answer nuthin’, but made tracks fer the road, and
got out o’ sight jess ez quick ez they could.”

“Did you look at the place where they had been?”

“Yes, but I couldn’t see nuthin’.”

“Have you any objections to our looking?”

“O’ course not. Go ahead--or, hold up, I’ll show ye where I seed them.”

The old man led the way to the spot. A carriage shed hid it from the
house.

Both of the boys looked around carefully, striving to find some clew
which might prove that the men had been the robbers.

While they were looking the old man plied them with questions. He was
surprised to learn of the part Bob had played in the first chase.

“I shouldn’t think yeou would want ter meet ’em again,” he laughed.

“That’s just where you are mistaken. I shall not be satisfied until
those rascals are run down.”

“I have an idee they went to Stampton,” said the old man.

Bob shook his head.

“No; the police are watching out for them there. They have passed
around Stampton and gone to some other place.”

“What place?”

“There is no telling. They might go to Dartinville or Burnham’s Ridge,
or else strike out directly for the river.”

“Most likely they struck out for the river,” said Frank. “That is if
the men were really the robbers. They might have been tramps.”

“I don’t think so,” said the old man. “Tramps don’t move away so
lively-like ez these fellers did.”

All laughed at this point, the old man loudest of all.

Presently, before Bob had completed his search, the woman came out
to announce dinner. She looked at Bob sharply a number of times, and
seemed on the point of asking some question, but changed her mind and
remained silent.

“Well, there doesn’t seem to be any use in searching farther,” said
Frank. “Perhaps they only stopped here to talk over their plans.”

“But what did they do with their booty?” questioned Bob. “They either
have it with them, or else they hid it somewhere.”

“It isn’t likely they would hide it around here.”

“Thet’s so,” said the old man.

“Did you see if any of them carried a bundle?” asked Bob.

“I dunno but what one of ’em did. But it wuz too dark to be certain on
it.”

There was a second of silence, broken by the woman.

“I am afraid dinner will be spoiled, if you wait any longer,” she said.

“Well, we’ll give it up,” said Frank, as he turned toward the house.

“No, we won’t,” shouted Bob. “Look here!”

He had picked up something from among the straw and dirt.

“What’s that?” cried Frank.

“A spoon, and it’s one of Mrs. Wright’s.”

“How do you know?”

“Because it’s just like the one she showed me. It has the same letter D
on it.”

“Yes, she was a Dalmer afore she got married,” put in the old man.

“Perhaps there are more of them,” put in the woman.

All began a stricter search than ever. But although they went over
every inch of the ground nothing more was found.

“I have an idea they merely looked over their booty,” said Bob. “They
were anxious to find out what they had got and couldn’t wait any
longer.”

“Or else they had a row among themselves, and started to divide up,”
suggested Frank.

“Well, one thing is certain,” concluded Bob. “The men were Casco,
Barker, and Grogan.”

They were soon inside the house, and making away with the well-cooked
food the woman had prepared for them. The meal over, they were on the
point of leaving when the woman touched Bob on the arm.

“Haven’t I seen you before?” she said.

“Perhaps. I used to work for Joel Carrow.”

“I don’t know the man. I must be mistaken, but I fancied I had met you
some years ago, when you were a small boy.”

“I used to live with old Peter Thompson before I went to work for
Carrow.”

“Then that is where we met. I used to work for Thompson.”

“You did? How long?”

“From the time his wife died until you were about seven or eight years
old.”

Bob was immediately interested. Here was somebody who might know
something concerning the past. He motioned to the woman, and the two
walked to one side, Frank refraining from following, knowing Bob would
rather be alone.

“May I ask your name?” went on Bob.

“Mary Ridley.”

“Were you related to Thompson?”

“Very distantly, yes.”

“Do you remember when he brought me to the place?”

“He did not bring you.”

“No?”

“No; a man in a carriage brought you.”

“Who was that man?”

Mary Ridley shook her head.

“You did not know?”

“No. I asked Peter, but he would not say, and evaded the question.”

“Did you ever hear where I came from?” and Bob’s heart beat quickly at
this direct question.

“I can’t answer that truthfully. Once Peter said you came from a
Brooklyn orphan asylum, then he said you were the son of an old friend
who had lived in Batavia, and another time he got angry and said he had
a good mind to send you back to Buffalo, where you belonged.”

Bob mused for a moment. It was more than likely that the man had spoken
the truth when angry, and that Buffalo was the place from which he had
been brought.

“Did you hear the name of the man who brought me to Thompson’s?”

“I heard Peter call him Bill.”

Bob started. Could the man have been Bill Barker, the robber?

Such would not be very strange. Barker had said he knew something
concerning Bob’s early history. Of course, he must have told an untruth
about the boy’s father being a thief, but still Bob was inclined to
believe that Barker knew a good deal.

“Did this Bill ever come back?”

“Oh, yes, he used to come about every three months at first. But
during the last year he came only once. Then Peter and him had a big
row, and that ended it.”

“What was the row about?”

“Something about money. I didn’t make it out. But I heard Peter say
that if it wasn’t that he had become attached to you, he would have
sent you back.”

“Back where?”

“I don’t know. Haven’t you ever learned anything about yourself?”

“Not a word.” Bob swallowed a curious lump that had come up in his
throat. “But I am trying hard to get on the track. I know one thing,
and since you have told me so much I’ll tell you it. The Bill Barker,
who is one of the robbers we are after, was, to my way of thinking, the
man who brought me to Peter Thompson’s house.”

“Gracious! How did you learn that?”

“By certain things I heard him say. That is why I am anxious these
robbers should be caught.”

“I see.”

“You don’t know anything further, do you?”

“No. I left Peter’s, you know, and then mother and my only sister died,
and I was all upset. But I thought I knew your face. Let me hear from
you, if you ever learn anything.”

“I certainly shall. By the way, do you think you would remember this
Bill, if you should ever see him again?”

“I can’t say. He always came at night, and was pretty well muffled up.”

“Evidently he didn’t wish to be seen,” mused Bob. “That shows his work
was underhanded.”

A little later Bob and Frank left. The young man noticed that the youth
was unusually silent on the road, but he asked no questions until the
outskirts of Stampton were reached, and then he did not touch the
subject nearest to Bob’s heart.

“What do you intend to do in Stampton, now we have arrived?”

“I hardly know,” said Bob. “I must find some boarding-place I suppose,
and then I’ll hunt for a job among the photographers.”

“Don’t you think we had better report to the police about that spoon
first?”

“Of course.”

They soon met a policeman, who directed them to the station-house. They
found the chief in charge, and quickly related what they had learned.

“Certainly an important clew,” said the chief. “I will send a man to
follow it up without delay.”

“And I’ll leave the spoon with you to be returned to Mrs. Wright,” said
Bob.

Bob and Frank then separated, as the young man had to send a telegram
to the firm for which he worked. He was having a vacation, but had to
keep in communication in case his services were needed.

Bob had but slight difficulty in finding a suitable boarding-house,
where he obtained a neatly-furnished attic room and good board for
four dollars and a half a week, washing thrown in. He had the landlady
change the fifty-dollar bill, and paid for a week in advance.

“That breaks the fifty,” thought the youth. “But I think I had better
learn more about the photographing business before I buy that camera.”

It was now too late to look for a situation, and Bob started out to
hunt up Frank, who said he would stop at the American Hotel.

Bob had not been to a large city for some time, and the many sights to
be seen pleased him greatly. He often hesitated to gaze into a shop
window, and, when he reached a photographic outfit establishment, he
stopped for a long time.

“Very fine views, Maverick,” he heard one gentleman say to another, as
both emerged from the door-way.

“That’s true, Fallon. I wish we had as good a lot. It would help our
excursion tours wonderfully.”

The two men passed down the street. Bob gazed after them.

“One of them must be Grace Maverick’s father,” he said to himself. “I
wonder where they live? I would like to take a look around, even if I
didn’t go in.”

For Bob thought a country boy like himself had no business in one of
those fine brownstone mansions, even if he had been invited to call.

Bob continued to look at the things displayed in the show window until
he had noted them all. He made up his mind that there was more to the
art of photography than he had dreamed.

“But I’ll master it, see if I don’t,” he muttered, as he turned away
and resumed his walk. “I won’t be a nobody any longer.”

Bob had scarcely gone a dozen steps when he saw a familiar-looking
figure approaching. The man was Slippery Paul Bidwell, the sneak-thief.




CHAPTER VIII

BOB OBTAINS A SITUATION


For the moment the sneak-thief did not recognize Bob.

“Not so fast, my friend,” cried the boy.

Bidwell started back.

“What, you!” he exclaimed.

“Exactly, Bidwell, and I want you.”

Bidwell turned and darted across the street. Bob lost no time in
following.

Reaching the other side of the thoroughfare, the sneak-thief made off
as fast as his long legs would permit.

He was a good runner, and would no doubt have gotten away had not a
fortunate accident occurred.

Turning a corner Bidwell ran full-tilt into a stout man who was walking
leisurely along, carrying a basket on his arm.

Down went the stout man, with Bidwell on top of him, while the basket
with its contents flew in all directions.

“Who--what?” the stout man spluttered.

“Beg pardon,” returned Bidwell, glibly. “It’s a case of life or
death--man seriously injured.”

He attempted to rise, but before he could do so Bob had him by the arm.

“Stay where you are!” ordered the youth, determinedly.

“Let go of me, boy!” cried Bidwell, angrily.

“Not much! Police, police!”

The stout man arose slowly to his feet, and stared at Bob.

“What does this mean, young man?” he questioned.

“This man is a thief, and is trying to get away.”

“It’s not so,” put in Bidwell. “A man is dying, and I am running for a
doctor.”

“He’s a thief I say,” went on Bob. “Will you call a policeman?”

“I will,” returned the stout individual. He was angry at Bidwell for
the rough treatment he had received.

A policeman was not far away, and the man hurried off to get his
assistance.

Bidwell tried to wrench himself loose. But Bob’s grip was a good one,
and he held on like grim death.

“What’s the row here?” demanded the policeman, as he hurried up,
followed by the stout man.

“I want this boy arrested,” said Bidwell, hurriedly. “He has just
escaped from the asylum.”

“Crazy, eh?”

“As crazy as a bedbug. He’s been following me around for over an hour.”

“That’s not so,” put in Bob. “This man is a sneak-thief, and----”

“He’s crazy on the subject of thieves,” said Bidwell. “He was once
scared by a midnight burglar, and it affected his brain. He belongs up
at the Cloverdale Asylum.”

“Well, what were you running for?” asked the stout man, suspiciously.

“A man was hurt. I was running to get a doctor.”

“Who are you?”

“I am Albert E. Whistler, the hardware manufacturer of Troy. I came to
Stampton this morning on business.”

“He tells it good,” said Bob. “Shall I tell you who he really is?”

“Don’t believe him, he is crazy.”

“His right name is Bidwell, and he is known as Slippery Paul, the
crook.”

At this declaration the policeman opened his eyes.

“You are sure about that?”

“Positive. If you don’t believe me, take us both to the station-house.”

“That’s fair,” said the stout individual. “I’ll pick up my basket and
set it in one of these stores and go along. I’m anxious to see the
matter out.”

This arrangement did not suit Bidwell, but he put on a pleasant face.

“All right, I’ll go along,” he said. “But keep a sharp lookout on that
boy.”

“And I’ll ask you to handcuff him,” said Bob. “He may try to slip away.”

At this Bidwell muttered something under his breath. He looked as if he
wanted to kill Bob, and the policeman saw that the shot had told.

“You’ll bear watching, I’m thinking,” he said. “So I’ll--hullo!”

Once more Bidwell had taken to his heels. But the officer was a fine
runner, and he soon overtook the sneak-thief.

“That settles it. Hold out your hands!”

“What for?”

“Never mind, hold them out!”

Bidwell did so, and he was quickly handcuffed. Then the whole party
marched to police headquarters.

Bidwell was quickly recognized by the captain of the police, and his
capture was considered an important one, especially when Bob related
the particulars of the jewel robbery. A pawn-ticket was found in the
sneak-thief’s pocket, and this afterward proved to be for money loaned
on the diamond and ruby cross, which was returned to Mrs. Varley.

The stout man who had been knocked down, became quite interested
in Bob, and after the hearing was ended, and Bidwell locked up, he
followed the youth to the street.

“Good for you,” he said, clapping Bob on the back. “I admire your
pluck. It is not every young man would have braved it out as you did.”

“I knew I was right, and had nothing to fear, sir.”

“Did you say your name was Robert Alden?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Do you belong in Stampton?”

“Not exactly. I came from Shellville. I am here looking for a job.”

“Oh! At any particular trade?”

“I wish, if possible, to learn the art of photography. I know a little
about it, and I am anxious to learn more.”

The stout man smiled.

“Do you know me?” he asked.

“No, sir.”

“My name is Edgar Starleigh, and I am a photographer.”

“Edgar Starleigh? I read the name on a sign.”

“So you would like to learn photography?”

“That is my ambition, sir.”

“Rather a difficult art, my boy.”

“And it will take quite a while to learn, too, I suppose, sir.”

“That’s true, although some learn quicker than others.”

“Even so, I would like to take it up.”

“Might give you a trial,” mused Mr. Starleigh.

“Eh? What did you say?” asked Bob, quickly.

“You might come to my studio in the morning.”

“Employment so quickly just suits me,” laughed Bob.

“Rather a lucky encounter, after all,” said the photographer, joining
in the laugh.

“And what time shall I come?” asked Bob.

“Unless you have other matters to arrange, come in at six o’clock.”

“That’s rather early, isn’t it, for photographing? Not but what I’ll be
on hand.”

“Hardly, when one has a lot of sunlight printing to do.”

“Oh, I see!”

“Real good printing needs good sunlight, and to get that one has to
be alert the moment the sun comes up. Of course I do a good deal of
printing by gaslight, too.”

The conversation then drifted around to the subject of wages, and Bob
was hired at six dollars a week, to be advanced as soon as he was worth
more.

On the following morning the youth presented himself at Mr.
Starleigh’s studio. He found the place somewhat shabby in appearance.
But the man was an excellent photographer, and his business was brisk.

Starleigh was well pleased at the manner in which Bob took hold, and
predicted that if the youth continued to apply himself he would soon be
able to take any kind of a picture.

During the noon hour Bob met Frank, and told him of the situation he
had secured, and also of Bidwell’s capture.

“Good for you. Starleigh is said to be a first-class man, and you had
better stick to him for a while. But I must bid you good-by for the
present.”

“Why, what’s up?”

“I must go back to work. One of our men has been taken sick, and I’ve
got to take his trip throughout the western part of the State next
month.”

“Then I won’t see you for a while?”

“No; but I’ll write, and I’ll expect you to do the same.”

And so the two parted firm friends.

Several days went by and Bob stuck diligently to his work, much to Mr.
Starleigh’s satisfaction. He saw nothing of Grace Maverick, and in a
roundabout way learned that the young lady was away on a brief trip to
the seashore.

The building in which the photographic studio was situated was a large
one, containing over two dozen offices. A hall ran through the middle
as far as the top floor, and there was also a rear hall on the second
and third stories.

On the evening of the fourth day Bob was left to lock up alone, Mr.
Starleigh having gone away on business, and the other assistant being
sick. Bob remained behind a little later than usual, being anxious to
finish mounting a set of landscapes, which were to be called for the
next day.

It was dark when Bob finished and stepped out into the hall-way.
Locking up securely, he started to go below.

Presently he heard the murmur of voices on the floor below. He looked
down, and saw three men coming up the second flight of stairs.

The hall-way was too dark to distinguish faces. But as the three men
turned and entered an office near the landing just below Bob, the youth
recognized the voices.

The men were Casco, Barker, and Grogan.

What had brought them to the place, and at this hour in the evening?

“Perhaps they are up to one of their old tricks,” said Bob to himself.
“I ought to notify the police and have them bagged without delay.”

He heard the men still talking, and, anxious to make out what was being
said, he tiptoed his way to the door and listened.

“You are sure Lawrence is nowhere about?” he heard Barker say.

“Positive,” returned Casco. “He got a letter calling him to Middletown,
and he left on the four-fifteen train.”

“Then we have the whole office to ourselves.”

“We have.”

“Then lock the door and come to business.”

“Yis, it’s hoigh toime we did that same,” growled Grogan. “’Tis a lot
ov toime we’ve been afther wastin’.”

“Slow but sure, Mike,” laughed Casco. “You mustn’t forget that the
police are on our heels.”

“I doubt if they know we are in Stampton,” put in Barker. “The old Nick
take that boy! If it hadn’t been for him they wouldn’t know who stole
the stuff.”

“Say, Bill, you seem to be down on him more than any of us,” came from
Casco.

“So I am.”

“What’s the reason?”

“That’s my affair.”

“Oh, if you’re going to be so close-mouthed about it----” began Casco,
coldly.

“That boy’s father did me an injury once, and I haven’t forgotten it,”
returned Barker.

“Who was his father?”

“Never mind that. He had me jugged, and that’s enough.”

“And now the old man’s dead, you are going to take it out of the boy,
eh?”

“And so would you, if you had been treated as I have been. I am not one
of the forgiving or forgetting kind.”

“Sure an’ we both know that same!” laughed Grogan. “Yer a gintlemon in
yer shtoyle, Barker, but yer a terror whin it comes to timper.”

“But say, Bill, didn’t you have something to do with the boy when he
was younger?” went on Casco, curiously.

“Who told you I had?”

“Nobody exactly, but I fancied----”

“You fancy too much, Jim. That matter hasn’t got anything to do with
the work on hand.”

Bob listened with bated breath to all that was said. He was sorry
Barker had cut the others short. What might he not have learned had the
man chosen to continue the conversation!

Bob was in a quandary. Should he summon the police, or should he stay
and hear whatever might be said?

“If I go out, they may leave during my absence,” he said to himself. “I
think I had better stay with them until somebody comes this way.”

He heard the men seat themselves around a table, and then Barker and
Casco lit cigars, while Grogan got out a pipe.

“Now to come to business,” said Barker.

“That’s the talk,” said Grogan.

“Well, Rosenbaum says he will give four hundred dollars for the stuff,”
began Casco.

“That’s mighty little.”

“He says all the stuff is not solid silver.”

Barker’s face fell and so did Grogan’s.

“I know it’s a disappointment,” went on Casco. “I thought the haul
would pay much better myself, but still four hundred dollars is better
than nothing, not to say anything of the cash.”

“Ye can’t make that Jew come up in the proice?” ventured Grogan,
puffing away vigorously.

“No. He only wanted to give three-fifty first.”

“Well, we might as well let it go,” said Barker. “The sooner we get the
stuff off our hands the better.”

“That’s so,” returned Casco. “It will leave us free for that other
deal.”

“Thrue fer you,” added Grogan. “’Tis meself that is itchin’ to get to
worruk upon that.”

“Plenty of time,” said Barker. “By the way, I wonder if there is
anything in this place worth taking along?”

“Nothing like making a search,” returned Casco, coolly.

He and the others arose, and Bob heard them moving about the office.
Presently he heard the slide of a roller-top desk shoved back, and
then a conversation, too low for him to hear clearly, reached his ears.

“If I only knew how long they intended to remain,” thought the youth.
“If I go for the police now they may leave at any instant, and then
I’ll miss them sure.”

Suddenly he heard Barker utter a cry.

“Just the thing!”

“That’s so. It will help us wonderfully.”

“Phat is it?” questioned Grogan.

“Never mind, Mike; you’ll know before you are much older.”

“Yis, but----”

Bob caught no more. There was a quick step on the stairs, and the
janitor of the building appeared, broom in hand, to sweep out the place.

“Hullo! what are you doing at that door?” he asked, loudly.

Bob motioned him to be silent, and then tiptoed his way to where the
man stood, mouth wide open in expectation.

“There are three well-known robbers in Mr. Lawrence’s office,”
whispered the youth.

“Robbers!” cried the man, louder than ever. “Just wait till I get after
them!”

“Better summon the police,” urged Bob. “They are all strong men, and
you cannot capture them alone.”

“We’ll see if I can’t,” cried the janitor, who was a very
self-important individual. “Run for the police yourself, if you want
to.”

He took a key from his pocket and unlocked the office door.

Rushing into the apartment he gazed around.

“What’s the matter with you?” he cried, turning to Bob, angrily.

“Nothing! Catch them!”

“There is nobody here.”

“What?” gasped Bob.

He brushed past the man. Sure enough, the room appeared deserted.

“They were here a moment ago,” went on the youth. “Look in the closets.”

“This is some trick of yours,” grumbled the janitor.

Nevertheless he opened the two closets which the office contained.
Neither held a single human form.

During this time Bob had entered a private office located in the rear
of the main one. Here there was a window opening upon a narrow alley.

The window-sash was raised, and looking out Bob saw that the opening
readily connected with a fire-escape.

“That settles it; they have gotten away,” thought the youth.

“Well?” queried the janitor.

“You just missed them,” said Bob. “They got out on the fire-escape.
I’m going to run them down if I can.”

“You must be mistaken,” said the janitor. “There don’t seem to be
anything disturbed.”

But Bob did not hear him. He was already on his way down-stairs, three
steps at a time.

Reaching the sidewalk he hurried around to the alley-way. It appeared
to be deserted.

Bob looked around. On the curbstone sat a bootblack eating a banana.

“Shine, boss?”

“No. Did you see three men come out of the alley a moment ago?”

“I did.”

“Which way did they go?”

The bootblack pointed his dirty finger down the street.

“Straight down?”

“Yes.”

“Thanks.”

Away went Bob at the top of his speed. At the first corner he paused.
Had the three robbers gone straight ahead, or turned down the side
street?

“I’ll take my chances that they made a turn. The question is which way,
to the left or the right?” he asked himself.

Bob looked up and down the side street. He saw that to the left the
street came to an end but a block off.

“They must have gone to the right,” he muttered. “I’ll try that,
anyway.”

Turning to his right he dashed down the cross street.

He had gone less than five hundred feet when he saw the figure of a man
emerge from behind a bill-board and scale a near-by fence.

The man was Bill Barker.




CHAPTER IX

BOB HAS A LIVELY FIGHT


Barker was alone, and no sooner had he disappeared over the high board
fence, than Bob made up his mind to follow him.

It was quite dark by this time, and perched on the top of the fence Bob
could see little or nothing. He listened intently, but nothing save the
hissing of escaping steam reached his ears.

The yard was one attached to a planing mill and box factory. It was
filled with boards and packing cases, and affording a number of
excellent hiding-places.

Bob dropped inside the yard and stole cautiously forward until he
reached a sort of driveway which divided the yard into two parts.

Nothing was yet to be seen of Barker, and Bob was puzzled to know what
had become of the robber.

Stepping to a nook near a high pile of lumber, Bob stopped once more to
listen.

Was he mistaken, or had he heard the faint creaking of a board to his
left?

He bent in the direction and waited. No; he was not mistaken; there was
the noise again.

Feeling around, Bob found a billet of wood. It was two feet long, and
more than an inch thick, and would answer very well as a club.

With the stick in his hand, he made his way cautiously to the spot
whence the sound had proceeded.

Suddenly something brushed past him, and a second later he found
himself confronted by Barker, who caught him by the arm.

“What are you following me for?” demanded the man.

Instead of replying Bob raised the stick and struck the fellow on the
head.

“Stand where you are, Barker!” he cried.

“What, Bob Pe----” began Barker, and stopped short.

“You know me, I reckon,” returned the youth. “Stand where you are,
unless you want another taste of this stick.”

“Was it you in the hall-way of that building?” demanded Barker, in
astonishment.

“It was. Where are Casco and Grogan?”

“Skipped the town,” returned the robber. “Are you alone?” he went on,
anxiously, as he tried to pierce the darkness behind Bob.

“Never mind about that,” returned the youth.

“You come along with me.”

“Where to?”

“I’ll soon show you.”

“I don’t think I will be such a fool.”

“If you don’t come along, I’ll knock you over with this stick,”
returned Bob, decidedly. “I don’t propose to stand any more fooling.”

“You talk mighty big for a boy,” sneered Barker.

“Perhaps I do, but I mean what I say. Come, move along.”

Instead of complying, Barker made a spring for the youth.

Bob retreated, and the next instant the stick descended on the robber’s
head with such force that the man was knocked flat on his back.

“Now will you mind?” demanded the youth, standing over him with the
stick upraised.

“The old Nick take you!” cried Barker, in a rage. “Let up there!”

“Will you promise to go along if I do?”

Barker hesitated. His head ached from the blow Bob had administered,
and he did not wish such a dose repeated.

“Answer me.”

“Yes, I’ll go. But, Bob, you are making a great mistake.”

“I don’t think so.”

“You are. Do you know me?”

“I know you are the man who said my father was a thief,” was the bitter
answer.

“I was only fooling, Bob.”

“I knew you wasn’t telling the truth.”

“I thought I could get you to join in our little plan to make money.”

“And you found out I wasn’t built that way, Barker.”

“That’s so. But you are making a big mistake by handing me over to the
police.”

“I think it will be a first-class job done.”

“You want to learn something about yourself, don’t you?” went on
Barker, significantly.

Bob breathed hard. Barker had touched the subject dearest to his heart.

“It’s natural that I should, isn’t it?” was the slow response.

“Well, you will never learn anything by having me locked up.”

“Don’t be too sure about that.”

“I am dead positive, for nobody knows anything about that matter but
me.”

“You are mistaken, Barker.”

“No, I am not.”

“There is a woman knows about it.”

Barker started.

“What, has Sarah Blake dared to tell you----” he began, and stopped
short.

Bob caught the name and remembered it. Little did he dream of the
peculiar circumstances under which he would meet Sarah Blake.

“Never mind, Barker. I am not so much in the dark as you think.”

“Sarah doesn’t know it all,” grumbled Barker. “I am the only one that
has all the facts.”

“And you won’t tell if I have you arrested?”

“That’s the size of it.”

“And if I let you go, what will you tell me?”

“A good deal that will be to your interest.”

Bob looked at the man and smiled grimly.

“I wouldn’t trust you, Barker. I would rather hear what you had to say
after you were behind the bars.”

“I won’t tell you a word, then. You can live and die the poor,
miserable nobody that you now are.”

“We’ll see. Let me tell you something. Even if I could trust you to
tell the whole truth, I wouldn’t let you go. You are a criminal, and
your place is in prison.”

“You’ll never put me there,” cried Barker.

“Yes, I will. Now march along.”

“Where to?”

“Over to that gate.”

Barker moved on as indicated. He wanted to run for it, but Bob kept the
club raised, and he did not dare.

Just as they neared the gate footsteps were heard, and a man appeared
with a lantern.

“Vot’s der madder here?” he demanded, in broken English.

“This man is a robber,” said Bob. “I want him arrested.”

“By chimminy, vos dot so?”

“Yes. Are you the watchman around here?”

“Yah. I dinks me I vos hear somepotty by der yard.”

“Will you call a policeman?”

“Sure, I vill.”

The watchman hurried off, and presently returned with an officer. In a
few words Bob told the policeman that Barker was one of the men who had
robbed John Wright’s house.

The officer at once took the robber in charge, and Bob accompanied both.

The station was some distance from the lumber-yard, and Barker proposed
that they take a horse-car, stating that he had slipped on a log in the
factory yard and sprained his ankle.

To this the policeman consented, and smilingly added that if his ankle
was sprained perhaps he wouldn’t feel much like trying to get away.

“No, confound the luck,” returned the robber.

The car was crowded, and all three were compelled to stand on the back
platform.

They had scarcely gone a block, when the car stopped at rather a dark
spot to take on a couple of passengers. There was squeezing on all
sides, and for a moment Bob lost sight of both Barker and the policeman.

Then when the car started again Bob looked around with a cry of
dismay. The officer and the robber had disappeared.

Bob forced his way inside of the car, thinking that the pair might have
entered to get out of the crush outside.

But a thorough search failed to reveal either of the persons in whom
the youth was interested.

“Gone!” ejaculated Bob, with a sinking heart.

“What’s that?” asked a bystander.

“Nothing. Did you see anything of that policeman and his prisoner?”

“They got off at the last stop.”

“Thank you.”

Bob lost no time in leaving the car and hurrying back to the place. All
was dark, and nobody appeared in sight.

“Hullo there, officer!” he called out.

He repeated the call several times, and finally the policeman came
running toward him, club in hand.

“Where is the man?” asked Bob, breathlessly.

“That’s what I want to know,” returned the officer.

“Did he get off with you?”

“No; he jumped off, and I followed.”

“Well, that’s a fine piece of business!” exclaimed Bob.

“I’m not to blame,” returned the officer, alarmed over the thought that
he had in some way neglected to do his duty.

“Really?” asked Bob, sarcastically. He was angry.

“No. Why didn’t you watch him?”

“It wasn’t my business after I had delivered him to you.”

“Yes, it was.”

“It was not. You’re a fine officer to take charge of a man.”

“Come, don’t talk to me that way,” cried the policeman.

“You didn’t attend to your business.”

“Say another word and I’ll run you in for loafing,” cried the
policeman, catching Bob by the arm.

“Let go of me!”

“Then don’t say it was my fault. I had nothing to do with it. It was
your duty to keep watch of the man until you made a charge against him.”

The policeman thought he could hoodwink Bob by saying this, but the
youth’s common sense told him better.

“It was all your fault,” said Bob, breaking away. “I have your number,
and perhaps I’ll report you. Now, I am going to hunt for the man again.”

And before the officer could stop him, Bob made off, while the
policeman went back to his beat, there to concoct some excuse for his
failure to do his duty.

Bob hurried down the street, looking in all directions for Barker, but
the robber was nowhere to be seen.

At the end of an hour the youth was discouraged, and slowly and
thoughtfully he made his way to his boarding-house.

How much had been missed by the escape of Barker! Not only the chance
of recovering the stolen goods, but also that of interviewing the
robber concerning the shrouded past.

“But I’ll meet him again some day, and then I won’t trust him to any
fool of a policeman,” said Bob to himself.




CHAPTER X

BOB’S FIRST CUSTOMER


Mr. Starleigh was much interested in the story Bob had to tell him on
the following morning.

“Lawrence has got back, and his desk was robbed of a hundred and five
dollars, so he says.”

“Those chaps are bad ones,” said the boy. “They steal wherever they
happen to be.”

The old photographer advised Bob to make a complaint against the
officer who had allowed Barker to slip away, but Bob shook his head.

“What’s the use? He would find some excuse, and I would only get into
trouble. No; after all, I’ll simply do what I can alone, and let the
rest go.”

A week passed, and Bob made rapid strides in the art he was following,
for photography now interested him more than ever before.

One day he was left alone at noon, and in rushed a young man.

“I’ve got fifteen minutes to spare,” he said. “Can you give me a
sitting in that time?”

“I am sorry, but Mr. Starleigh is out, and so is his assistant,” said
Bob.

“Too bad! If I had a sitting to-day when could I have the photos?”

“All of them?”

“The first one.”

“In a few hours. The others, if you want a dozen, would be done a
couple of days later.”

“I wanted one to-morrow night sure. My brother is going to South
America day after to-morrow, and I promised him my picture to take
along.” The young man scratched his head. “Can’t you give me a sitting?”

“I would rather you would wait,” replied Bob, fearing Mr. Starleigh
would not like such a proceeding.

“I can’t wait. Go ahead, if you know anything about the work.”

The young man insisted, and at last Bob consented to give him a sitting.

With great care Bob adjusted his focus, and gave his customer what he
considered an artistic pose. In a minute more two plates were taken.

“How about proofs?” asked the youth, as the young man pulled out his
watch and then a roll of bills.

“I haven’t time to come for them. How much will the dozen be?”

“Four dollars and a half.”

“Here’s your money. Send that picture to my home on Mountain Avenue.
My name is Ralph Maverick.”

And before Bob could say a word, the young man was gone.

“Ralph Maverick,” murmured Bob to himself. “I wonder if he is any
relation to Grace? The two look a little alike. Perhaps they are sister
and brother.”

When Mr. Starleigh returned, Bob related what he had done. The old
photographer lost no time in looking at the plates and developing them.

“One is no good, but the other is excellent,” he said. “You gave him
a first-rate pose, Bob. Get a frame and some paper, and we will print
a couple at once. You’ll soon be a full-fledged photographer, and I’m
glad of it, for Sidler drinks so much I’ll have to discharge him.”

While Bob was getting the paper, he asked Mr. Starleigh if he knew the
young man.

“Oh, yes; he is a son of Gregory Maverick, the president of the T. W.
& L. Railroad. You can take the picture to his house as soon as it is
done.”

This pleased Bob. He wished to see Grace Maverick once again, if
possible, but he did not care to make a call unless he had business,
being afraid she might think he had come to be rewarded for his bravery
in helping her down the cliff.

Bob left the photographing establishment at six o’clock with four of
the pictures in his pocket. He had worked hard during the day, and he
felt both tired and dirty.

“I think I’ll go home first and wash, dress, and get supper before I
deliver the picture,” he said to himself. “If I called at the house
looking like this, Grace Maverick might take me for a tramp.”

Which showed that Bob placed a high value on the beautiful young girl’s
opinion.

Bob hurried to his boarding-house, and after a good scrubbing dressed
himself in a new suit he had just purchased. Then he hastily swallowed
his supper, and set out for Mountain Avenue.

The way lay past the studio, and as Bob drew near to the place where he
was employed, he noticed a crowd rushing along.

“What’s up?” he asked of a man who was running.

“Fire up the street.”

The man had hardly answered, when with a shrill tooting an engine came
tearing along, followed by a hose-cart and a hook and ladder company.

Bob was instantly interested. He had never witnessed a fire in the
city, and he was anxious to see how the thing was managed.

He followed the crowd. What was his astonishment to see the engine
stop directly in front of the building in which the studio was situated.

“Back there!” cried a policeman to the crowd, while the firemen began
to run a hose into the hall-way.

“Why, where is the fire?” cried Bob, in alarm.

“Upstairs,” returned a bystander.

“They say it started in a photographic place,” said another man.

Bob turned pale. They must mean Mr. Starleigh’s studio. He wondered if
his employer was around.

Bob had a key to the studio. Breaking through the crowd, he dashed past
the policeman on duty.

“Here--what?” demanded the officer.

“I want to save our things if I can,” returned Bob.

He dashed up the first flight of stairs and then the second. The
hall-way was filling with smoke, but no fire was to be seen.

But on the third landing he paused. The smoke was thicker than ever,
and he could hear the faint crackling of flames. Would it be safe to
venture farther?

He hesitated for only a second.

“I’ll save what I can,” he murmured, and up he dashed.

He was about to insert the key in the lock, when he noticed that the
door was already unfastened. He pushed it open, and rushed in.

The thick smoke rolled directly into his face, almost choking him.

“I can’t stand this very long,” was his thought.

Suddenly a puff of flame rolled overhead, lighting up the apartment.

Guided by this, Bob made a rush for the operating-room, bent on saving
the valuable lenses, if nothing more.

He had just reached the curtain to this apartment, when there came
another puff of flame, followed by a shower of sparks.

Some of the sparks alighted on a table in the corner filled with
chemicals.

There was an explosion almost immediately, and poor Bob was hurled
backward, while the chemicals flew all around him.

The smoke was thick, and, completely bewildered, the lad could not tell
which way to turn to reach the door.

Once he started, crawling on his hands and knees, and brought up
directly opposite to where he wanted to go.

The smoke was every moment getting thicker, and it looked as if the
brave youth was to die like a rat in a trap.

“I must get out somehow,” he muttered, desperately. “Why can’t I find
the door?”

He turned, and, rising, made a dash forward.

“Help, help!”

The cry startled him. It came from the developing closet, and Bob
recognized the voice as that of Mr. Starleigh.

“Mr. Starleigh!” he called out.

“Oh, Bob, is that you? Help me, in Heaven’s name!”

“I will.”

Guided by the voice, Bob rushed through the operating-room, and threw
open the door of the dark closet.

A red light burned on a stand, and by it Bob saw his employer lying on
the floor, one hand grasping a box of plates.

“Help me, Bob!”

“I will if I can, sir. Can’t you get up?”

“Yes, but I can’t walk. I tried to save all those new plates, and two
of the boxes fell on my ankle.”

“Take my hand.”

The old photographer did so, and got up, although the movement caused
him great pain.

“I’m afraid we can’t get out through the main room,” said Bob. “The
flames are breaking through everywhere.”

“I see, and--your coat is on fire. Let me put it out.”

Mr. Starleigh caught the burnt portion in his hand, and crushed it.

“That must have caught when the chemicals exploded. Tell me, what is
beyond this closet?”

“The hall-way, I believe.”

“There is no door out?”

“There was, in that corner, but I nailed it up.”

“We must get it open somehow. Stand over there, out of the way.”

Mr. Starleigh followed directions. Bob pulled away the stand which
stood before the closed door.

“If I only had an axe,” he said.

“There is a hammer in the next room on the shelf.”

“I’ll get it.”

Leaving Mr. Starleigh leaning against a table, Bob rushed out into the
operating-room. He found the hammer, and also brought with him the
valuable lenses, which he knew his employer greatly prized.

With all his force he began to batter on the door. At first it resisted
his efforts, but finally with a crash one of the panels gave way.

Then another panel was knocked out, and, with savage energy, Bob
attacked the middle strip.

His blows fell thick and fast. At last came a crash, and the top of the
door was smashed into several parts.

“Just in time,” cried Mr. Starleigh. “See, the whole operating-room is
in flames!”

The hall-way seemed to be now quite free from smoke. Bob leaped through
the opening he had made, and helped his employer to follow.

“Hullo! what’s up here?”

It was a fireman who asked the question.

“We’ve just escaped,” said Mr. Starleigh. “Help us to get down-stairs.”

“He can’t walk,” said Bob. “If you will get on one side of him I will
get on the other.”

The fireman willingly complied, and it was not long before they reached
the sidewalk, where a denser crowd than ever was now congregated.

Mr. Starleigh was assisted to a near-by drug-store, and a doctor at
once gave his injured ankle proper attention.

“I wish I had saved my lenses,” he sighed. “The rest of the stuff in
the place was not of so much account.”

“Here are the lenses,” returned Bob, producing them.

“What! Did you really get them?”

“Yes. I trust they are not scratched,” went on the youth, with
considerable concern.

“They do not appear to be. Bob, I shall not forget you for this work,
nor for saving my life, also.”

“Pooh! I didn’t save your life,” replied Bob, and he returned to the
fire.

By this time several other engines had arrived, and half a dozen
streams of water were being poured on the flames. The firemen had a
hard fight of it, but in less than an hour the fire was under control,
although they continued on guard and would allow no one within the fire
lines.

Bob stood around for a while longer, and then he suddenly remembered
the photographs in his pocket. He pulled them out, and found they were
uninjured, which was strange, considering the rough usage they had seen.

“I might as well deliver these, and get it off my hands,” he said to
himself. “I wonder if Mr. Starleigh saved the plate, so that we can
print the others.”

Bob returned to the drug-store. He found a fellow-photographer talking
to Mr. Starleigh. A number of plates had been saved, among them the one
containing Ralph Maverick’s picture, and these the other photographer
said he would finish for Mr. Starleigh.

At the drug-store Bob brushed up as best he could. His new coat had
several small holes burnt in it, but this could not be helped.

Arriving at the Maverick mansion, he rang the bell and asked for Mr.
Ralph Maverick.

“Yes, he is in.”

“Please tell him I come from Mr. Starleigh’s studio.”

The servant who had answered the summons retired, and presently Ralph
Maverick appeared.

He was well satisfied with the picture.

“I don’t see how Mr. Starleigh could have done any better,” he said.

Bob told the young man of the fire, but added, that the pictures would,
nevertheless, be ready in the course of a few days.

“Well, it’s too bad you were burned out,” said Ralph Maverick. “Will
you start up again?”

“I suppose so.”

A little more talk followed, and then Bob turned to go. He was keenly
disappointed at not seeing Grace.

But his disappointment was of short duration. Presently, while the two
stood in the hall-way, there was a rush of feet on the stairs and Grace
Maverick ran up.

“There! I was afraid you would never call!” she cried, catching Bob by
the hand, and giving him a squeeze that made him blush.

“Why, Grace, do you know him?” questioned Ralph Maverick, in surprise.

“Indeed I do,” returned the beautiful girl, warmly. “He is the young
gentleman who saved my life when I fell over the cliff.”

“You don’t say! I must shake hands with him myself. Why didn’t you
introduce yourself?”

“Oh, I--I----”

“He brought my picture. He didn’t say anything about knowing you,” went
on Ralph.

“Then you didn’t come to see me?” asked Grace, pouting slightly.

“Well, I’m glad I did see you,” stammered Bob. “But I have to attend to
business, you see,” he went on, lamely. “I work for a photographer, and
we are fearfully busy.”

“I’ve been looking for you ever since I got back from the seashore.”

“Yes, I heard you had gone,” said Bob.

“Come into the parlor, I want to talk to you. I thought sure you and
Mr. Landes would call together.”

“He had to go on a trip for the house he represents. Otherwise, I
imagine he would have been glad to come,” explained Bob.

He was taken into an elegant parlor, where he felt a good deal like a
fish out of water. But Grace and her brother did all they could to make
him feel at ease, and, before he left, he was quite at home.

“Papa wants to see you very much,” said Grace, during the course of
conversation. “He is not at home to-night, but he will be to-morrow
evening. Will you call, then?”

“I will, if I can.”

“Oh, that won’t do! You come sure, and I will make papa stay home, even
if he has got another engagement.”

“He might not care to do that,” suggested Bob.

“Oh, he cares to do whatever I want him to,” returned the young lady.

When Bob left, he felt in particularly high spirits; why, he could not
exactly state.

He returned to his boarding-house by way of a short cut through a
number of back streets.

It was quite dark when he reached the steps of the boarding-house. As
he was about to ascend, latch-key in hand, he noticed a man sitting on
the curbstone, his head resting on his hands.

Approaching the man, Bob shook him by the shoulder.

“What’s the matter with you?” he asked.

The man stared at him vacantly.

“What’s that?” he asked.

“I asked what was the matter with you?” repeated Bob.

Instead of replying the man sprang to his feet, and caught Bob by the
throat.

“I’ll show you,” he mumbled, with a hiccough. “Give me back my money,
Jim Casco, d’ye hear?”




CHAPTER XI

BOB ASSISTS A STRANGER


Bob was surprised at the stranger’s words. He shook off the hold the
man had on his throat, and then grasped him by both arms.

“What did you say?” he demanded.

“I said I wanted my money back,” growled the stranger, wildly. “You
drugged me, and I know it, Jim Casco.”

Again the man stared at Bob, and then to both sides.

“I must be off,” he hiccoughed. “I thought I was still in Cabot’s
place.”

“Is Cabot’s a saloon?”

“It’s a saloon and a thieves’ den,” growled the man. “Gosh! how my head
spins.”

“And you think you were drugged?”

“Of course I was. Ordinary liquor wouldn’t knock me out like this.”

“You said something about a Jim Casco.”

“That’s the man--heard the barkeeper call him by the name, but he got
hushed up pretty quick.”

“Where did you meet this Casco?”

[Illustration: THERE WAS AN EXPLOSION AND BOB WAS HURLED BACKWARD.]

The drugged man gave a deep sigh. He was gradually coming to his
right senses. Bob got some water and bathed his head, after which the
victim felt better.

“Let me think. Oh, yes, I met this Casco down by the river. There was
an Irishman with him----”

“What was his name?”

“This Casco called him Mike. But, say, who are you?”

“I know those rascals, and I am willing to be your friend,” returned
Bob.

“Good for you. And your handle?”

“Bob Alden.”

“Mine is Walter Anderson. I came to Stampton from Buffalo a month ago,
and I’ve been making pretty much of a fool of myself ever since. But I
wish I had my money back.”

“How much did you have with you?”

“About thirty dollars.”

“And it’s gone?”

“Every cent of it, hang the luck!”

Bob thought for a moment.

“Would you mind showing me the way to Cabot’s place?”

“Certainly not. Come on. I’m feeling better than I did a while ago.”

Walter Anderson led the way down the street, and into a dirty square
fronting the river.

“See that fancy light over on the corner?”

“Yes.”

“That’s it. Cabot calls it the Rivermen’s Rest. It is nothing but a
thieves’ den.”

“Now listen to me,” said Bob, earnestly. “If I go in, will you stay
here till I come out?”

“Yes, but----”

“I will see if this Casco and Mike are inside. If they are, I will let
you know, and you can summon assistance, and we can have them arrested.”

“Good enough.”

Anderson took a seat on a stepping stone near the curb. Pulling his
hat far down over his eyes, and turning up his collar in true “tough”
style, Bob made his way toward the Rivermen’s Rest.

Nothing could be seen from the outside but the lights, as the screens
were tightly drawn over windows and doors.

Bob hesitated only a moment, then he opened one of the doors and
entered.

A cloud of thick and rank tobacco smoke greeted him, mingled with the
smell of stale liquors.

“Phew! enough to make a decent man sick!” was the youth’s mental
comment. “How anybody can love to come to such a place is past my
comprehension.”

The place was a long and narrow one. In the rear was a sort of
restaurant, and, seeing a vacant table, Bob walked over to it, and
dropped into a seat.

“A sandwich and a cup of coffee,” he said to the dirty waiter who came
to take his order.

While the waiter was filling the order Bob gazed around him, and his
keen eyes took in every detail of the place.

Not far behind him was a door leading to a side room. This door stood
partly ajar, and by pushing his chair back a little distance from the
table, Bob was enabled to see into this apartment.

At a table in the middle of the small room were seated an old man and
a middle-aged woman. The old man, it was plain to see, was little
better than a sot. His clothes were worn out and dirty, and his general
appearance showed that he had long since lost all pride.

The woman was quite lady-like in appearance and well dressed. She
seemed to be expostulating with the old man.

“Why don’t you leave them, father, and turn over a new leaf?” Bob heard
her say.

“That’s all right enough to say,” growled the old man, in return. “I
can’t leave ’em.”

“Yes, you can.”

“If I did, how would I get along?”

“I will help you.”

“Bosh! Your help wouldn’t amount to enough. It costs money to live.”

“It costs money to drink,” she cried. “Otherwise----”

Bob did not catch any more of the conversation. Presently, just as the
waiter came with the youth’s order, the lady arose and left by a side
door.

“She looked out of place here,” thought Bob. “If that is her father, I
pity her.”

In vain Bob scanned the faces of those already in the place, and those
who came in. Nothing was to be seen of Casco and Grogan.

“They must have left before I got here,” thought Bob. “I wonder if I
can find out where they went.”

He ate his sandwich slowly, but even when he had finished he was still
in doubt as to how to proceed.

But just as he was about to arise, some one came through a hall-way in
the back, and entered the little side room.

“Well, Blake, did you think I wouldn’t get back?” asked the newcomer of
the old man.

“You’ve been a long time,” mumbled the old man.

“I couldn’t help it. Where is the girl?”

“Gone.”

“Good! I don’t want to run against her any more.”

“Sarah ain’t like she used to be,” was the reply.

Bob listened with great interest to this talk. The old man’s name was
Blake, and the woman was spoken of as Sarah. Could she be the Sarah
Blake Barker had mentioned?

“If she is, I must meet her and talk to her by all means,” said Bob to
himself. “She must know something about the past.”

Bob wondered who the newcomer was, but he was not kept in doubt long.
The voice sounded slightly familiar from the start, and presently the
speaker spoke up louder, and the youth made the astonishing discovery
that the man was James Casco in disguise.

The scar-faced man wore a heavy beard and mustache, and was dressed in
the garb of a waterman.

“I have located him at last,” thought Bob. “Now to see that he does not
escape me.”

Casco and the old man entered into a low conversation, of which Bob
heard but little, although he tried his best to make out what was being
said.

Presently the two arose, and slipped out of a door into the back hall.

“They are going up-stairs,” was Bob’s conclusion. “I wonder if I dare
follow them?”

Arising, he walked to the desk, and settled for what he had had. Then
he pretended to be interested in a number of pictures hanging on the
walls.

Gradually he drifted back toward the side room, and, watching his
chance to see that he was not observed, he slipped into the apartment,
and swiftly but silently made his way to the hall.

Here only a smoky lamp, hanging from the ceiling, lit up the place,
leaving all in semi-darkness.

No one appeared to be in the hall, and, listening intently so as not to
be caught napping, Bob ascended the stairs.

“I suppose if they found me here, and knew what I was after, it would
go hard with me,” he thought. “Well, I am in this game to win, and I’ll
prove to them yet that I am not a nobody.”

Arriving at the upper hall, Bob paused and peered around. All was dark
save for a thin ray of light that shone from under the door to one of
the middle rooms.

Approaching this door Bob listened for several minutes. At first he
could hear nothing, but gradually there came to his ears the voices of
four men in earnest conversation.

The four men appeared to be in a room beyond the one opening upon the
hall. Should Bob enter the first room?

“I’ll go the length of the string,” he said, bravely. “It is the only
way to capture them. I wonder if that Walter Anderson is still on
guard?”

He tried the door, and, finding it unlocked, pushed it open.

The room appeared to be a sort of lodge-room, with half a dozen benches
scattered around, and a desk and chair at one end.

A lamp stood on the desk, which was piled high with papers.

Opposite the desk was the door leading to the room in which were the
four men. This door stood on a crack, and tiptoeing his way forward,
Bob peered in and beheld Casco and Blake on one side of a table with
Barker and Mike Grogan on the other.

“All of them,” he muttered to himself. “What a haul it would make if
the police were only here at this moment.”

He was about to leave and summon help, when he heard Barker mention his
name.

“Yes, I had a hard time of it getting away,” went on the man. “I tell
you that boy is smart.”

“He comes from a smart family,” put in old Blake. “His father----”

“Hush!” cried Barker, hastily. “None of that here.”

“Well, just as you say, Bill,” returned the old man. “But I reckon you
will have a job with Sarah----”

Barker put up his hand, and the old man broke off at once.

“Well, how about that money?” demanded Grogan. “Sure, an’ we have
waited long enough fer it, so we have.”

“And we’ll have to wait a while longer.”

“Phat fer?”

“The Jew has got into trouble.”

“How?”

“Over some stolen goods a jeweller’s clerk sold him. We have got to
take the stuff to somebody else.”

“Sure, an’ ’tis a shame,” growled Grogan. “We’ve had more throuble
about that swag than enny Oi ever seen befure.”

“That’s true,” said Casco. “But the whole thing will be settled by next
week, and then we’ll be off for the big haul.”

“And I’m to be in that?” put in old Blake, eagerly.

“You are,” said Barker.

Suddenly Casco jumped to his feet.

“I forgot to ask Cabot about something,” he cried. “Just wait till I
come back.”

He made for the door. Bob tried to retreat, but he was too late. Out in
the hall Casco overtook him, and caught him by the shoulder.

“Who are you?” he demanded.

“Let me go!” cried Bob.

He tried to break away, but the scar-faced man held him fast.

“Hullo, it’s that Bob Alden! How did you get in here?”

“Walked in. Let me go!”

“Oh, I’ll let you go!” returned Casco, sarcastically. “Hi, there, boys,
here’s a spy!”

“Sure, an’ who is it?”

Barker ran out, and aided Casco in dragging Bob into the lodge-room.

Then before they released him the door was closed and locked.




CHAPTER XII

BOB’S QUEER EXPERIENCE


“Now, I imagine we have you safe,” said Casco, after the door was
locked. “Sit down on that bench.”

“Well, if you insist, I will,” returned the youth, trying to make the
best of the situation.

He was terribly chagrined at the turn affairs had taken, but he
resolved to brave it out as best he could.

“Now tell us how you came to follow us here,” said Barker.

“I discovered Casco was stopping here.”

“How did you discover that?”

“He robbed a friend of mine.”

“Humph! he must mean the jay who was drugged,” muttered Casco. “I
didn’t know he was a friend of yours.”

While Casco was talking, Barker opened a closet and brought forth a
rope.

With this Bob was bound hands and feet.

“Now, if you make the least outcry, we will gag you,” he said.

“What do you intend to do with me this time?” questioned the youth.

“One thing is certain, you won’t escape us,” returned Barker, with an
evil smile.

“Betther see if he has any money wid him,” suggested Grogan.

Bob was at once searched, and the three dollars in his pocket taken
from him.

“Every little counts,” said the Irishman. “Blake, suppose ye go down
an’ git a bottle fer all hands.”

Old Blake at once left the lodge-room.

In less than two minutes he returned all out of breath.

“Get the boy out of sight,” he cried.

“What’s up?” asked the others, in concert.

“Cabot says the police are watching the place. He just saw an officer
walk past with that fellow who was drugged.”

“The old Nick you say!” muttered Casco. “I thought he had been fixed
for all night. Catch hold, Barker.”

“Where to?”

“The garret, quick!”

Barker caught hold of Bob on one side, and Casco on the other, and
between them they carried the youth up two flights of narrow stairs,
and into a sloping room under the roof.

Grogan followed with a lamp which was placed on the floor.

“Let me see!” said Casco, looking around. “Ah! here is a cross-beam!
Let us lash him to that!”

This was quickly done in such a manner that Bob could move but little.

“We must make it impossible for him to escape,” said Barker.

In spite of his stout heart, Bob was compelled to shiver at being tied
up.

“We had better gag him,” went on Barker.

“Of course. Here is a bit of rag will do for that purpose.”

A strip of an old dress was brought forth, and after tying a large
knot in the middle the strip was placed over Bob’s mouth with the knot
inside and made fast.

“That settles him for the present,” said the scar-faced man. “Now we
had better put out the light.”

“Yis, douse the glim be all manes,” said Grogan. “Thin Oi’ll look out
the front winder, an’ see if thim men is still hangin’ around.”

The light was extinguished, and the Irishman opened the small window
in the front end of the garret. The fresh air that came in was very
welcome to Bob, who could hardly breathe.

“Oi can’t see anybody,” said Grogan, after a long look down into the
street. “Perhaps Cabot was mistaken.”

“I’ll go down and see,” replied Barker. “If anybody comes up here and
tries to nose around bluff him off.”

“We will,” said Casco. “But keep watch, and give us plenty of warning.”

This was agreed to, and Barker left the garret immediately.

The others grew silent, Casco standing by the stairs with ears on the
alert.

Five minutes passed. They dragged slowly to Bob, who was wondering what
would happen next, and if he would ever get out of his predicament with
a whole skin.

Suddenly two pistol-shots rang out. They were followed by a whistle
outside, and then another on the second floor below. The raid by the
police had begun.

As it was dark in the garret, Bob could not make out the movements of
his captors.

He heard Casco say something to Grogan, and then the two went off,
leaving old Blake in sole charge. The latter remained near the stairs,
listening intently for the first sign of any one trying to come up.

Presently there was another cry, and then Blake hurried to Bob’s side.

“Listen to me,” he said. “Don’t you dare to make a move or a sound till
I come back. If you do, I’ll fix you.”

Then Bob heard him descend the stairs, and heard the opening and
closing of the door.

Bob at once set to work freeing himself. He did not care for the threat
which had been made. Probably Blake had become frightened, and would
not return at all.

Close to where Bob was bound was a large blue chest, with iron-bound
corners. When he had been brought to the spot the youth had noticed
that one of the iron corners was broken, leaving a sharp edge sticking
from the top.

Bob could just reach the chest with his feet, and, by rubbing the rope
around his ankles over the rough edge of the iron, he managed after
considerable trouble to wear the rope in two, thus freeing his feet.

But his hands were still tied behind him and to a small bit of joist
between two upright beams.

Planting his feet firmly on the floor Bob tugged at the joist with all
his strength, and was at last overjoyed to find he had loosened one end.

To loosen the other was a comparatively easy job, and then Bob stood a
free boy, but with his hands still fastened to the bit of wood. Bending
over the chest, he again began his rubbing process, and soon the wood
fell to the floor, and Bob’s hands were once again ready for use.

He lost no time in tearing the dirty gag from his mouth. While he was
doing this, he heard the door at the foot of the stairs unlocked, and
Grogan came up.

Bob knew the Irishman’s tread too well to be mistaken. He turned to
flee, then, not knowing where to go, he stopped short and faced his
enemy.

Grogan carried a lantern on one arm. He cast the rays over to where Bob
had been tied, and uttered an exclamation of dismay.

Then he caught sight of Bob. At the same time the youth snatched up the
piece of joist.

“Make a sound, Grogan, and I will strike!” cried Bob, determinedly.

“How did you git loose?” demanded the Irishman.

“That is my affair. Stand where you are.”

Instead of complying, Grogan made a dash forward. As he did so, Bob
struck out at him.

The joist struck the lantern, shivering it to pieces and leaving the
pair in darkness.

Bob struck out again, and this time Grogan was knocked over.

Finding his enemy did not offer to move, Bob spoke to him. Grogan made
no reply. Growing alarmed, Bob struck a match and lit the wick of the
lantern which lay close at hand.

“Knocked out that trip,” muttered Bob to himself. “Well, it serves him
right. I reckon I had better go below.”

He was about to carry out this idea, when he heard the door at the foot
of the stairs open.

“Hurry up, Barker,” he heard, in the voice of Casco, and then the steps
came closer.

What was to be done? It would be fool-hardy to face the two men, both
of whom he felt sure were armed. He must escape by some other means.

The window in the front end of the garret was still open, and toward
this Bob rushed and looked out. The sidewalk was fully forty feet
below, and there was no way to reach it save by a jump, and this would
have meant instant death.

Bob looked up. Overhead, the roof of the building was but a few feet
away. He sprang upon the window-sill, and without hesitation pulled
himself out and upon the sloping roof beyond.

It was a dangerous situation, but Bob’s nerves were up to a high
tension, and he did not falter.

The electric lights on the street beyond threw considerable light on
the roof, and by this means the youth was enabled to crawl down to the
gutter. Then he walked along to the rear, and finding here a projection
one story lower, dropped upon it.

All had become quiet in the saloon and restaurant below, and Bob
wondered what the police had done, and if they had really gone.

The youth looked around for some means of reaching the ground. There
was the water spout, but that seemed too frail to bear his weight.

Leaning over the edge of the roof, he saw not far below a pulley-line
used for drying clothes. The other end of the line was fastened to a
house on the opposite side of the yard, and, by pulling upon the line,
Bob found it moved through the pulley easily.

Taking his pocket-knife the youth quickly severed one of the lines and
hauled in on the other. The consequence was that he soon found himself
in possession of about a hundred feet of good strong wash-line.

Twisting the line double, Bob fastened one end to a chimney, and,
grasping the other, he started to lower himself down over the edge of
the roof.

Bob came down the last ten feet with a great rush, thereby tearing some
of the skin from his hands.

But he shut his teeth hard, and though the pain was great, he made no
sound.

Darting across the yard, he entered the back door of the house on the
next street. The door led to a dark and narrow hall-way. Once inside,
Bob closed the door, and finding a bolt on it, quickly slipped the
fastening into place.

By feeling around the youth found that there was no way out of the
hall-way, except by going up the stairs or down into the cellar.
He followed the former course, and soon found himself on an upper
landing, where a broad staircase led to a large and well-lighted front
hall.

He lost no time in descending the stair, doing so almost silently, as
the steps were heavily carpeted.

But below the hall-way was of polished wood, and his footsteps rang out
clearly as he passed to the door.

This was locked and bolted, and the youth had considerable difficulty
in opening it.

“Hullo, young man, what are you doing here?” suddenly demanded a sharp
voice, and a side door opened from a store, and a heavy-set man rushed
out.

“I was trying to escape from the house on the next street,” explained
Bob. “Some men weren’t treating me right.”

“That’s fine enough to say, but I don’t believe you. Just you wait
until I call an officer.”

Bob was so taken aback that for the moment he did not know what to say.

“An officer!” he gasped.

“That’s what I said. We have suffered from your kind several times, and
now I intend to put a stop to it.”

The man spoke very decidedly, and, as he faced Bob, he looked fiercely
at the youth.

“I am not a thief. You can search me, if you wish.”

“Perhaps you didn’t have the chance to get anything,” sneered the
heavy-set man. “But you are in the hall of my house, and that’s enough.”

The man saw to it that the front door was locked, and placed the key in
his pocket.

Then he walked to the side door.

“Jimmy,” he called loudly.

“What’s up, pop?” came in a boyish voice.

“Go and get a policeman. I’ve caught one of those confounded
sneak-thieves at last.”

“Is that so, pop! Good for you!”

A freckle-faced boy with red hair came out into the hall, and looked
wonderingly at Bob.

“So you’re a sneak-thief, hey?” he said.

“No, I am not,” replied Bob.

“Don’t stand there all night, Jimmy; but do as I told you,” cried the
parent.

Jimmy at once disappeared. The heavy-set man stood close to Bob,
wearing upon his face a look of great importance.

“You are making a great mistake, sir,” said Bob. “I just came from
Cabot’s place, and all I did was to attempt to pass through your
hall-way.”

“And pick up anything you could find on the way, I suppose,” was the
cold reply.

“No, sir.”

“Well, I won’t waste words with you. The police will give your case
all the attention it deserves.”

Bob heaved a sigh. If arrested, how could he prove his innocence? The
fact that he had been in Cabot’s at the time of the raid would not
stand to his credit. Perhaps his story of being a prisoner would not be
believed, especially if Casco, Barker, and the others escaped.

Bob meditated a dash for liberty, but before he could put it into
execution the boy came back with a policeman.

“Caught one of ’em, have you, Mr. Olney?” said the officer, as he took
Bob in charge.

“I have.”

In vain Bob tried to explain matters. The policeman would not listen,
and the youth was hurried off to the station-house and thrust into a
cell, to await a hearing in the morning.

He wondered what had been done at Cabot’s place, and if any of his
enemies had been captured.

“If not, this will give them a good chance to clear out,” he said to
himself, bitterly.




CHAPTER XIII

BOB MAKES A TRUE FRIEND


The cell in which Bob was confined was provided with a rough
sleeping-bench, but though the youth lay down he did not slumber, but
lay awake thinking over his troubles.

At last morning came, and at nine o’clock Bob was brought out into the
little court-room attached to the station. Here sat a stern-faced judge
who eyed him sharply, as the charge against him was made.

“What have you to say to this?” Bob was asked.

Bob, of course, put in a plea of not guilty. Then he was asked a number
of questions, and he related his whole story.

“You look as if you were telling the truth, but the facts in the case
don’t bear you out,” said the judge. “You had no right under any
circumstances to enter Mr. Olney’s house.”

At that moment a man brushed forward. It was Mr. Starleigh.

“May it please your honor, may I ask why this young man was brought
here?” he asked.

The judge happened to know the old photographer, and he related the
case.

“He is not guilty, you may be sure of that,” said Mr. Starleigh. “I am
positive he is perfectly honest.”

“You know him, then?”

“He works for me. He is the person who helped to capture Bidwell, the
thief.”

“Oh, then, that is a different matter. But still----”

While the judge was talking, Mr. Starleigh turned to Olney.

“John, you are making a sad mistake. This young man is not a
sneak-thief.”

“It looks mighty suspicious,” returned Olney. He was a dealer in
photographic supplies, and Starleigh was a good customer.

“I feel certain you are mistaken.”

“Did you say he works for you?”

“Yes.”

“Then I’ll withdraw the charge,” Olney said, not wishing to displease a
valued customer. He turned to the judge. “Your honor, will you allow me
to withdraw the charge?”

“Well, under the circumstances, you may,” returned the judge. “The
young man having such a person as Mr. Starleigh to vouch for his
honesty, makes a difference. Robert Alden, you may go.”

Bob lost no time in stepping down. Olney stopped to talk to Mr.
Starleigh for several minutes. When he was gone, the youth grasped the
old photographer by the hand.

“Oh, how can I thank you!” he exclaimed, warmly.

“That’s all right,” returned Mr. Starleigh. “I haven’t forgotten what
you did for me, Bob.”

“It was fortunate you came here.”

“I was summoned to testify against a fellow who set the building on
fire,” returned the old photographer. “He had a grudge against one of
the tenants. But the case has been postponed for a couple of days, so I
am not needed.”

“What do you want me to do?”

“If you will, I wish you would go over to Martin’s studio. He will give
us facilities for printing from the plates we saved. This afternoon the
fire insurance agents are going to adjust my claim and then I will open
somewhere else just as soon as I can.”

“Before I leave I would like to know what the police did at Cabot’s,”
said Bob.

“We will ask Captain Downes. I know him quite well.”

The official mentioned was found close at hand. He said two rivermen
had gotten into a dispute in the saloon, and both had discharged their
pistols, but without damage. Two policemen had been summoned, and the
rivermen were now in jail.

Bob then told of Casco, Barker, and Grogan.

“I heard about that through the fellow who was drugged,” said Captain
Downes. “And two detectives are already on the way. But no doubt those
men have lost no time in getting away, and Cabot will deny they were
ever there. They are a set of shrewd and slippery criminals.”

“Can you tell me anything about this Blake?”

The captain shook his head.

“Never heard of him.”

“And Sarah Blake?”

“Never heard of her, either. They are probably newcomers to Stampton.”

The conversation continued for several minutes, and then Bob left to
make his way to Martin’s studio, while Mr. Starleigh hurried off to
rent new quarters in place of the ones burnt out.

Bob found Martin a very nice man. The youth worked hard, and by evening
he had printed and mounted an unusually large number of photographs.

“You have the knack of it, I see,” said Martin. “If you are ever out of
a job, come over and see me.”

“Thank you, perhaps I will,” replied Bob.

He had not forgotten the promise he had made to Grace Maverick, and,
after supper that evening, he brushed up and again visited the mansion
on Mountain avenue.

The girl met him at the door, and at once conducted him to the
library, where sat Mr. Gregory Maverick, the president of the T. W. &
L. Railroad.

Mr. Maverick was a short, round-faced man, with rather a pleasant cast
of countenance. He sat in an easy-chair, his slippered feet resting on
a cushion.

“Papa, this is Mr. Robert Alden,” said Grace, presenting the youth.

Mr. Maverick at once jumped up, and caught Bob by the hand.

“So you are the young man who rescued Grace, are you?” he said. “I am
very happy to meet you. I have been wanting to thank you for a long
time for that brave act.”

“Oh, it wasn’t much!” stammered Bob.

“I think it a good deal,” laughed the railroad president. “Sit down.
Grace tells me you are a stranger to Stampton.”

“Yes, sir. I came here looking for work.”

“And have you succeeded?”

“Yes, sir.”

And Bob started to tell how he had run across Mr. Starleigh through the
sneak-thief’s effort to get away.

“I’ve heard of that fellow,” said Mr. Maverick. “But go on with your
story. I am quite interested.”

“And so am I,” added Grace, who had taken a seat at her father’s feet.

Bob did as requested. Both Mr. Maverick and his daughter asked a great
number of questions, and before the youth was aware he had related his
entire history, and the clock had long since struck ten.

“Really I must be making you tired,” said the youth, as he glanced at
the time-piece.

“On the contrary, I have been deeply interested,” said the railroad
president. “I like to see a young man show pluck and determination.
That is the only way to succeed in life. So your ambition is to become
a first-class photographer?”

“Yes, sir. I don’t care so much for studio work, but I would like to
use the art on the road. I love travelling from place to place.”

Mr. Maverick stroked his chin reflectively. A sudden idea had flashed
through his mind.

“You like to do work outdoors, eh?”

“Yes, sir.”

“How long will it take you to learn that branch of the work?”

“Oh, I can take that sort of a picture now. Faces are the hardest
things to photograph.”

“I see.” Mr. Maverick mused for a moment. “Will you do me the favor to
call here to-morrow evening? I may have a proposition to make to you.”

“I will come, sir.”

Then the conversation became general, and a quarter of an hour later
Bob left, Grace Maverick seeing him to the door.

Bob could not help but wonder what proposition the railroad president
would have to make. Of course, it would be in return for the assistance
he had given Grace.

Perhaps Mr. Maverick would offer him a place on the road. Well, if it
paid, Bob would accept it, even though it was not in exact line with
his desires. He would do a good deal to be where he might occasionally
come in contact with Grace.

On the following morning Mr. Starleigh announced that he had purchased
the title and interest in a photographic establishment close to the one
which had been burned out. The plates which had been saved, as well as
the lenses, were at once transferred to the newly-acquired studio, and
by dinner-time they were once more ready for business.

The assistant who drank had been discharged, and when Mr. Starleigh
went off to purchase some supplies which would soon be needed, Bob was
left in sole charge of the studio.

The man who had owned the establishment before Mr. Starleigh had
purchased it had been a wild sort of a fellow, and had paid but scant
attention to business. Consequently trade was all run down, and as Mr.
Starleigh’s former patrons had not yet heard of the change, business
during the afternoon was exceedingly dull.

But Bob worked hard at printing and mounting photographs, and to him
the time passed quickly enough.

At length, about five o’clock, there came a series of loud knocks on
the glass door which led to the hall.

“Come in!” called out Bob, and in response there stalked in a very
tall, lean man, with hollow cheeks and sunken eyes.

The man stared vacantly around the studio, and then dropped into a
chair.

“You take photos here, I understand?” he said, in a deep bass voice.

“Yes, sir,” returned Bob, politely.

“Photos of all the Presidents, I understand?”

“Hardly,” laughed Bob. He thought the man was joking. “Sometimes we
take a bank president, or something like that.”

“Never took a President of the United States?” demanded the man,
sharply.

“I think not, sir.”

“I understood differently, understand, I understood differently,” cried
the man, raising his voice and jumping to his feet. “I am not to be
imposed upon, either,” he added.

“I am not imposing on you,” returned Bob, gently. He realized at once
that the man was not right in his mind. “We would willingly take a
President, if he would grant us a sitting.”

“Ah! so I thought. That’s the reason I came here. Do you know who I am?”

“I do not, sir.”

“I am the President of the Sandwich Islands--appointed by act of
Congress last month. Take off your hat.”

As Bob had no hat on, he could not comply with this demand. His failure
to do as bidden seemed to anger the man, who was nothing more or less
than crazy.

“Did you hear me, sir?”

“I did; but I haven’t any hat on.”

“Ah! that’s different. I am short-sighted--lost my sight in the Mexican
war--a shell passed in front of me--I dodged--and though I escaped, it
carried the best part of my eyesight with it.”

To this Bob made no reply. He was meditating on how best to get rid of
his unwelcome visitor.

Suddenly the man stole over to where he stood.

“Get the machine ready,” he cried.

“What for?”

“For my picture. I want you to take the largest ever taken, regardless
of expense.”

“I can’t do that, sir.”

“Why not?”

“I am only a helper here--the proprietor is out. You had better call
again.”

“Ha! I would, but I haven’t time, understand, I haven’t time. Every
moment of a President’s life is important. I have three ministers to
appoint before I go to sleep, and the people harass me to death with
their applications.”

“Well, I can’t take the picture.”

“Then I will take it myself.”

The man rushed toward the camera, and caught hold of the tube.

“Stop!” cried Bob, in alarm. “You may break something.”

Bob grasped the crazy man by the arm and tried to make him let go his
hold on the camera.

“You will only break it,” he went on. “Please come in to-morrow.”

“Now or never! I have promised all my friends a picture of my skeleton,
and I do not intend to disappoint them. Where are the plates? The
best in the house, mind, regardless of expense. The President has his
picture taken at the public expense, ha, ha! That’s a joke.”

Seeing he could do nothing with the crazy fellow, Bob moved toward the
door, intending to summon assistance and have him removed.

But now a knowing look came into the lunatic’s eyes. He left the
camera, and leaped toward the youth.

“No, I’m not going back, and you can’t make me. They all say I’m crazy,
but they are jealous, that’s all. But when the picture is taken it will
be all right. Stay here till I press the button, and don’t dare to
move, or I will have you banished to utter darkness forever.”

And, catching up a folded tripod, the crazy man stood guard, so that
Bob might not escape from the studio.




CHAPTER XIV

BOB MAKES A NEW MOVE


Bob was alarmed when the crazy man strode forward, tripod in hand, as
if to brain him should he attempt to leave the studio.

He had not had much to do with people of unsound mind, but he was well
aware that his present position was both a delicate and a dangerous one.

If the lunatic attacked him, he would have a hard struggle to keep
himself from harm, for, despite his hollow eyes and shrunken form, the
man looked strong.

“I’m not going to leave,” said Bob. “Put down the tripod, and sit in
the chair if you want the picture of your skeleton taken.”

He left the vicinity of the door, and seeing this the crazy man at once
dropped the folded tripod and sank into a chair.

“Will you take the picture?” he demanded.

“I will if you will promise to go away right afterward,” returned the
youth.

“That goes. Take me this way, and be quick. I must catch the next ocean
steamer for the Sandwich Islands.”

The man sprawled out on the chair, put one hand to his chin and the
other to his breast and put on a sober, earnest look.

Bob at once placed a prepared tin plate in the camera, put on the
proper lens, and in a few minutes had a tintype of the crazy man.

“There you are,” he said, as he trimmed it up. “Now you will have to
hurry to catch that steamer.”

The lunatic glared at the picture for a second. Then he burst out into
a wild fit of laughter.

“Is that me? Really, where is the skeleton? Oh, this is a fraud! Take a
thousand more, and be sure and add the skeleton, if you want your pay.”

Bob’s heart sank within him. He had made a great effort to get rid of
the lunatic, and failed. What was to be done now?

He decided to use strong measures. Picking up the folded tripod, he
advanced toward the lunatic.

“Get out of here at once,” he said, sternly. “I am too busy to be
fooled with. Go!”

The crazy man’s face fell, and with a slow step he moved toward the
door.

“Excuse me,” he said, softly. “I didn’t know you were busy. I’ll come
in some time to-morrow.”

He made a profound bow, and started as if to go.

“Thank fortune I am rid of him!” thought Bob.

But the youth was mistaken. Reaching the door, the lunatic suddenly
turned, and, before Bob was aware, sprang straight for the youth’s
throat.

The attack was so unexpected that Bob was borne over backward, the
crazy man landing on his breast.

“Let up!” gasped Bob, desperately.

The crazy man did not reply, but tightened his grip on Bob’s throat, so
that he was nearly choked to death.

In vain Bob struggled. He could not loosen that nervous hold the
lunatic had taken, and now his head began to swim, and strange lights
began to flicker before his eyes.

He tried to kick, but could not reach his opponent. Half a minute more
passed, and poor Bob was on the point of giving himself up as lost.

Then the door of the studio opened, and Mr. Starleigh hurried in,
followed by Mr. Martin.

“Hullo! what’s this?” cried the old photographer, surveying the strange
scene in astonishment.

“It’s Crazy Sam Bartlett,” ejaculated Mr. Martin.

“He is choking the boy to death,” went on Mr. Starleigh. “Here, let him
be!”

He caught the lunatic by the shoulder, and hauled him backward.

The man set up a howl, and ceased tormenting Bob. He gave one look at
Mr. Martin and his face fell.

“Sam, what does this mean?” demanded the photographer.

“Haven’t time to explain,” returned Bartlett, hurriedly.

“When did they let you out?”

“I ran away--they think I am crazy--but I’m the President of the
Sandwich Islands. Here we go!”

Bartlett made a dash for the door. Mr. Martin tried to stop him, but he
was too late.

A second later they heard a crash. Bartlett had leaped down the entire
flight of stairs. All three went after him, and found him lying at the
bottom, his left leg broken.

The police were at once summoned, and a close coach was procured, in
which he was taken to the lunatic asylum from which he had escaped.

Then Mr. Starleigh had Bob tell his story. Both the old photographer
and Mr. Martin listened with great interest.

“And I never want another such experience as long as I live,” concluded
Bob.

“I shouldn’t think you would,” said Mr. Starleigh. “Cranks are bad
enough, but a real crazy man is ten times worse. It is lucky we came
in when we did.”

Bob went to work again, but his nerves were all unstrung, and before
long the old photographer told him he might as well stop for the day,
as there was no need for further hurry.

When Bob reached his boarding-house, he found a long letter from Frank
Landes awaiting him. In the epistle Frank said he intended to take a
trip to Stampton before long, and then go on a business tour along the
T. W. & L. Railroad.

“I would like to go with him,” thought Bob. “Maybe I’ll see Frank, if
Mr. Maverick offers me a place on the road.”

That evening found Bob again at the railroad president’s mansion,
according to agreement. Grace was present, and a long talk occurred.

“I want to do something for you, Bob,” said Mr. Maverick. “I think I
owe it to you, after what you did for Grace. But I will not offer you
money for that service, for such acts are not to be paid for in cash.”

Mr. Maverick paused. Bob bowed, but did not reply. He was wondering
what was coming.

“You said you loved the art of photography, and would like nothing
better than a chance to travel about taking pictures. To help you along
in this direction, I have purchased for you a complete travelling
outfit, including a horse and a wagon----”

“Mr. Maverick!” burst out the youth. “Do you really mean that?”

“Yes, Bob,” smiled the railroad president. “Come with me!”

Grace jumped up, and led the way out of the house and down to the barn.

There stood a fine horse and a regular photographer’s turn-out. The
lantern was lit inside of the wagon, and Bob saw it contained several
cameras, some lenses, a great number of plates, besides a cabinet of
chemicals and other things needed for taking pictures.

“This is Grace’s gift to you,” said Mr. Maverick. “How does it strike
you?”

“It--it strikes me all of a heap,” gasped Bob. “Do you really mean to
say this whole outfit is for me?”

“Certainly,” said Grace. “And I hope you will make money out of it.”

“But--but it’s too much!” went on the youth, who could as yet hardly
realize his good fortune.

“No, it isn’t,” returned the girl, warmly. “You deserve every bit of
it.”

“There is a money drawer under the seat,” went on Mr. Maverick. “In it
you will find some cash, which you will need.”

Bob shook his head. There was too much of a lump in his throat to say
anything. Good fortune seemed to have come all in a heap.

“Does it suit you?” asked Grace, watching him curiously.

“It more than suits,” burst out Bob. “Why I--I can’t thank you enough.
You have made me the happiest chap in Stampton.”

“I have not finished yet,” said Mr. Maverick. “Now you have the outfit,
I believe you are almost capable of doing the work I wish done.”

“I will do whatever I can for you,” returned Bob, quickly. “And I won’t
charge you a cent.”

“In that case you can’t do anything. But this work is for the railroad.”

“And what is it?”

“We intend before long to get up a new guide book of the route, and
our superintendent thinks we ought to get out a fine illustrated work
similar to those put out by some of the larger roads. For that purpose
we will have to send out a man to take at least thirty or forty of the
finest views obtainable for photo-engravings. I have spoken to Mr.
Starleigh--met him just before I returned home--and he thinks with a
little coaching you could do this work very well.”

“I would do my best,” returned Bob, with sparkling eyes.

“I advise that you remain with Mr. Starleigh for several weeks yet, and
then we will start you out. You may take your own time in getting over
the ground, and whenever you need money you can send to the paymaster
for it. When you have finished, the bill will be promptly paid, and I
trust by that time you will have other work, sufficient to keep you
going. Do you accept?”

Bob did, without hesitation.




CHAPTER XV

BOB BECOMES A TRAVELLING PHOTOGRAPHER


Bob did not know if he was walking on stone or the air when he left the
Maverick mansion. To him it seemed as if the vista of good fortune had
opened to its very widest limit.

“I must be dreaming,” he murmured. “Bet a cent I wake up in the loft of
old Carrow’s barn and find it all a dream.”

And the youth actually pinched himself to make sure that he was not
asleep.

It was past eleven o’clock, but though Bob might have taken a horse-car
to his boarding-house, he preferred to walk, knowing full well that
even when he came to lie down, he would not be able to sleep for
speculating over all that had happened.

The night was a gloomy one, and presently, without hardly any warning,
it began to rain. At first the drops were few and far between, but
before the youth had gone a block farther the shower turned into a
deluge, and Bob scampered for shelter.

Not far away was a shed over the front of a butcher shop. Under this
shed ran Bob, and huddled close to the building to avoid the rain
which the rising wind drove in.

Bob had been under the shed probably three minutes when a man and a
woman came out of the hall-way beside the butcher shop, and stood
watching the rain.

“We will get all wet, Paul, if we try to leave in this storm,” Bob
heard the woman say.

“It may break away in a few minutes, Sarah,” returned the man. “It is
only a shower.”

“Showers sometimes last a long time,” was the reply.

The sound of the woman’s voice was somewhat familiar to Bob, and he
moved forward a bit to get a look at her face. She was the same he had
seen in Cabot’s establishment, the one he rightly supposed was Sarah
Blake.

Instantly he was all attention, and, pulling his hat still farther over
his eyes, he edged close to the open door-way.

“You saw the old man?” went on the man called Paul, after a short pause.

“I did.”

“And you could do nothing with him?”

“No. He loves drink, and will do almost anything to obtain it. The case
is hopeless.”

“You offered him money, I suppose?”

“I offered him what I could. But it was not enough. He said he would
take care of himself, and told me to leave him.”

“That crowd evidently have him well in hand.”

“I am afraid so, Paul.”

“Well, the best thing you can do is to let the whole matter drop. You
have done your duty.”

“I know, but----”

“Remember, he is only your stepfather, and if you insist on following
him up, you may get into trouble.”

“But, Paul, I feel that he has not done right. He was mixed up in some
crooked work, and I am afraid every day that I will hear of his arrest.”

“You take too much on your shoulders, Sarah,” returned the man,
earnestly. “You had better come back home with me and let the matter
drop. This travelling around under an assumed name and stopping in such
a boarding-house as this----”

Bob heard no more. A violent gust of wind shut the door with a bang,
and all became dark and dreary once more.

Bob hesitated, not knowing what to do. Should he knock on the door and
ask the woman for an interview?

While he was deliberating, the door opened again, and the man came out.
He hurried up to the corner, where stood a cab, and got in.

Was he going to leave the woman behind? It certainly looked so.

But an instant later the woman came out and with all speed she ran
toward the cab.

Bob dashed forward, but before he could stop the woman she had entered
the cab beside the man, and the driver whipped up the horses.

Away went the cab at a high rate of speed.

Bob tried to catch on behind, to signal the driver to stop, but he
failed in both. He slipped on the wet stones, and went down on one
knee, and by the time he arose the cab had disappeared in the darkness.

Bob was much chagrined. He felt almost certain that the woman could
have told him something concerning the past.

“And that’s not the worst of it,” grumbled Bob to himself. “It’s bad
enough to let them slip, but they are most likely going out of town,
and goodness only knows when I’ll see her again.”

He turned back under the shed again, and dashing the water from his
hat, and wiping off one of his hands, which had become covered with
dirt, he rang the hall bell.

A moment of utter silence passed, and then a tall, sour-faced woman,
evidently an old maid, appeared.

“Good-evening,” said Bob, politely. “I called to find out if you could
tell me where that lady and gentleman who just left had gone to.”

“No, I can’t,” snapped the woman. “What do you want to know for?”

“I wish to see the lady.”

“So did several men. But she’s gone, and I’m glad of it.”

“Will you please tell me her name?”

“I don’t know it. She said it was Brown, but perhaps it isn’t. I didn’t
like her, and I’m glad the man came and took her away.”

“Do you know where she came from?”

“No. She paid in advance, and I needed the money, so I took her in. But
she was too sly for me. Is that all you wanted to know?”

“Yes, ma’am.”

Without another word, the woman shut the door in Bob’s face and locked
it. Bob could not help but smile to himself.

“Something didn’t suit,” he murmured to himself. “Rain or no rain, I’m
going to try to follow that cab.”

He started off at once in the direction the cab had taken, running as
fast as the slippery pavement would allow.

But though he traversed several blocks, no vehicle of any kind outside
of a horse-car appeared in sight, and finally he was forced to abandon
the chase.

On the following day Bob and Mr. Starleigh had a long talk in regard
to the youth’s future. The upshot of this talk was that Bob agreed to
work for nothing for two weeks, providing the old photographer would
teach him as much of the business as possible in that length of time.

Bob was slightly worried over the question of what to do with his horse
and wagon during that time, but Mr. Maverick solved it by telling Bob
to leave the turn-out in charge of the stable-hand until he started
away from Stampton.

The two weeks passed rapidly, and Bob spent every hour of the time in
devouring every item of information which might prove useful to him
while taking pictures on the road.

During that time Grace Maverick came to the studio to have her picture
taken. Mr. Starleigh allowed Bob to do the work, which proved highly
satisfactory. When Bob printed and mounted the pictures, he made an
extra one, but this did not go among the studio samples.

“I’ll keep that for my own,” said Bob to himself.

At length the day came for Bob to quit the studio. Mr. Starleigh shook
him warmly by the hand.

“I am sorry to lose you, Bob,” he said. “But I am glad you are going to
start on your own account with such bright prospects. I have taught you
all in my power, and you ought to be able to get along very well.”

“Thanks, Mr. Starleigh, and I won’t forget what you’ve done for me,”
returned Bob.

Bob had received full instructions from the railroad superintendent as
to what sort of pictures were desired. He was to go along the entire
length of the road, and the original order for thirty pictures had been
increased to fifty, to include sections of the roadbed, bridges, and
views of the scenery on the route and in the vicinity.

“And do your best, Bob,” said Grace Maverick.

“You can take my word I will,” replied the youth. “And if you will
allow me, I will occasionally send you a few private pictures, taken by
the way.”

“Oh, that will be delightful!”

He shook her hand. The extra squeeze he gave it was returned, and both
blushed. Then he turned to Mr. Maverick, bade him good-by, and drove
off.

Bob the Photographer had started on his first travelling tour. Little
did he dream of the many adventures and perils he was to encounter
before he returned to Stampton.

The horse that had been presented to him was a good one, and he started
off at a lively gait. The wagon moved along easily, and Bob, seated up
in front, whip in hand, felt in the best of spirits.

His first stop was to be at a place called Dartinville, a small town,
situated on the mountain side. It was a great place for summer
boarders, all of whom had to come by way of the T. W. & L. Railroad.

The road to Dartinville ran along the side of a narrow but deep creek.
It was rather a rough road, with the mountains directly back of it.

As Bob drove along, he began to whistle, but presently the whistle died
on his lips, as he heard the rush of wheels directly behind him.

He looked back, and saw a horse tearing toward him at a breakneck speed.

Behind the horse was a sulky, and clinging to the seat of this was a
bareheaded man, who seemed to be paralyzed with fright.

Bob’s heart jumped into his throat. What was to be done?

“Steer out!” he yelled to the man, as the horse and turn-out came
nearer.

“I can’t! Stop the horse!” yelled the occupant of the sulky, in terror.

“I can’t stop him. Steer out or there will be a smash-up,” went on Bob.

The man paid no attention. He had dropped the lines, which were
trailing on the horse’s heels, and he did not have courage enough to
risk letting go his hold in an endeavor to pick them up.

Bob saw that something must be done, and at once. He caught up his own
reins, and at the risk of upsetting his wagon turned in toward the
mountain slope.

“Steer out, I tell you!” he cried again. “If you run into me, you’ll be
killed.”

“Stop the horse!” was the man’s only reply.

With a bound, Bob was on the ground. He ran back of his own wagon as
fast as his legs would carry him.

By this time the runaway was but a few feet away. Seeing Bob in the
road, the horse sheered in and darted past the youth.

Bob gave a groan. The runaway was now less than five yards from his own
turn-out, and it looked as if he would dash headlong into it and thus
smash it into a thousand bits.

“Whoa!” yelled Bob, in one mighty, final effort to attract the mad
steed’s attention.

The horse heard the command, gave a snort, and shook his head. Then he
swerved outward, and flew past Bob’s turn-out, just grazing one of the
rear wheels.

Bob rushed forward, but before he could catch the mad animal the horse
swerved still more, made a leap, and plunged into the water, dragging
the sulky, with the man on it, after him.

[Illustration: THE HORSE PLUNGED INTO THE WATER, DRAGGING THE SULKY,
WITH THE MAN ON IT, AFTER HIM.]




CHAPTER XVI

BOB TAKES A DIVE OVERBOARD


Bob was alarmed when he saw the horse go overboard, dragging the sulky
with the man clinging to it after him.

He saw the horse go down out of sight. The rear end of the sulky
remained above water, but the man dropped over the front, and he, too,
disappeared.

Bob waited for a moment in breathless suspense. Then he saw the horse
come up and begin to struggle wildly.

Where was the man? Second after second passed, and still he failed to
appear.

“Perhaps he’s caught in the sulky and can’t rise,” thought Bob. “He’ll
be drowned if he stays under much longer.”

Suddenly the youth saw something which filled him with horror.

It was one foot of the man, which stuck up through the left sulky wheel.

“He’s caught sure,” burst out the youth. “Unless I help him he’ll be
drowned.”

The horse was still struggling madly, and the water all around was
churned into foam.

Bob approached the brink of the creek and watched eagerly to see if the
man would show any sign of life.

Presently he saw the foot give a spasmodic movement, and then on the
other side of the wheel appeared the man’s head.

“Save me!” were the first words he uttered, as he expelled a lot of
water from his mouth.

“Can’t you get clear of the wheel?” cried Bob.

“No; my leg is caught in the reins, which are all twisted up.”

Bob listened to no more. He pulled out his clasp-knife and opened
it. Then watching for a favorable opportunity, he dived to the man’s
assistance.

Under the surface he went, but quickly came up close to where the man
was situated.

“It’s my left leg,” cried the man. “Confound the horse, why can’t he
keep still?”

“Because he wants to be saved, too,” replied Bob, and under he went.

Bob was used to the water. Indeed the only recreation he had had while
living with old Peter Thompson was to go swimming in the river behind
the house, and gunning in the woods.

Consequently the youth felt perfectly at home. With eyes wide open,
he quickly took in the situation, and two slashes of the clasp-knife
released the tangled-up limb, and the man was free.

Without a word the man made for the bank, and, catching hold of some
overhanging bushes, pulled himself up.

“Don’t you want to save your horse?” called out Bob, taking care that
the animal should not kick him.

“I do, but I don’t know how.”

“Get the rope tied under my wagon.”

The man ran off, and in less than fifteen seconds returned with a long
rope which the young photographer carried for a case of emergency.

“Throw one end down,” went on Bob, and this was promptly done.

Catching the floating end, Bob made a noose in it. Then he swam close
to the struggling horse and threw the noose over the animal’s head.

“Now pull him down the stream to that shallow place,” cried Bob. “Hurry
up, or he’ll be a goner.”

Pulling on the rope the man started down the stream. It was hard work,
and long before he reached the shallow spot Bob was up on the bank
beside him.

As soon as the horse struck the shallow part of the creek he ceased
to struggle, and they had but little difficulty in leading him to dry
ground.

Here, however, he began to tremble, and finally sank down on his side.

“He’s chilled more than anything,” said Bob. “The best we can do will
be to rub him. I don’t believe he has swallowed much water.”

“He don’t look so. But he was fearfully heated from running away. I
reckon that rubbing will warm us up, too.”

Bob ran back to his wagon and got a blanket and several other articles.
When he came back, he found the man had already gone to work, and he
set to helping.

Once thoroughly rubbed down and blanketed, the horse appeared to be
better.

“Leave him in the strong sunshine for a while, and he’ll be all right,”
said Bob. “As soon as he makes a move to stand up make him do so and
walk him around.”

“I see you are used to handling horses.”

“A little. What was the trouble, did he run away?”

“Yes, got the bit and that settled it. I am glad we saved him.”

“He looks like a valuable animal.”

“I believe he is. He is not mine. He belongs to a friend, who asked me
to take him out and exercise him.”

“Your friend will be surprised when he learns of what has happened.”

“I suppose so. But who are you, if I may ask?”

Bob told him.

“I am Edgar Willett, of Dartinville. I owe you something, Alden, for
your generous help.”

“That’s all right.”

“So you are taking pictures for the railroad company?”

“Yes.”

“Intend to stop at Dartinville?”

“Such was the calculation.”

“Then while you remain you must make my home your own. My house is the
first beyond the blacksmith shop. I have lots of stable room for your
horse and wagon.”

“Thank you.”

“Oh, no thanks. You saved the horse, and that is worth a good deal to
me.”

While they were waiting for the horse to recover, Bob entered his
own turn-out and changed his clothes. He gave Willett a like chance,
offering him a suit that almost fitted him, and the man gladly made the
transfer.

A couple of hours later they started for Dartinville. Willett led the
way to his own house, and Bob tied up in the stable. Mrs. Willett was
told of what had happened, and she at once prepared a hot dinner for
the two.

Bob was hungry, and he ate heartily. Then Willett started to return the
horse and the sulky, and the young photographer went off to take his
first picture for the railroad company.

There was a bridge at Dartinville which the railroad company had built
over the creek. It was a picturesque place, and Bob had every reason to
believe that it would make a fine view.

With his camera in one hand and his tripod and satchel slung over his
shoulder, Bob made his way to the spot.

In order to get the proper view the young photographer was compelled
to climb through a mass of thick brush and stubble. This was not very
agreeable, but Bob bore it philosophically, remembering that all work
is not play.

At last Bob reached a spot he thought a good one and without delay he
set up his tripod. He had just adjusted his camera and was putting in a
plate when a noise close at hand made him pause.

The noise came from the depth of the brush, and for the moment Bob
could not make out what it was.

“Maybe somebody is following me,” he thought.

A minute later the sound ceased. Bob listened for it quite a while, but
at last turned again to his work. It was no easy matter to get a good
picture, as the sun shone almost directly toward him.

“If I am not careful, I’ll have a ghost on the plate,” he said to
himself, thereby meaning that the sun would cause the picture to be
white spotted.

To make sure of getting a perfect plate Bob took two pictures, one
while the sun was out full and the other when that luminary was
slightly clouded.

The pictures taken, Bob placed them away so that no light might reach
them, and prepared to leave the spot.

“That makes picture number one,” he thought. “And I sincerely hope that
it proves a success.”

He resolved to develop both plates as soon as he reached the wagon, and
if one was not perfect in every way to return and try again.

Bob had just started to close up his camera when the strange noise he
had heard before reached his ears.

This time it came closer, and the young photographer made up his mind
it was some animal roaming in the brush.

“Perhaps a stray cow,” he said to himself.

“Here, cush! cush! cush!” he called out.

For reply the crashing through the brush came even closer.

Presently the brush was thrust aside by a pair of horns and the head of
a large and angry-looking bull appeared.

“Hello, this is interesting,” thought Bob, springing back.

The bull gave a look around and then fixed his glaring eyes on the
young photographer in a most threatening manner.

“Gee haw!” shouted Bob, trying by this means to make the bull leave.

Instead of turning, the bull gave a fierce snort.

“He means mischief,” thought Bob, looking around for something with
which to defend himself.

Then the bull lowered his head and with another snort rushed toward
Bob.




CHAPTER XVII

BOB MAKES A STRANGE CAPTURE


Bob sprang to one side, catching up the camera as he did so.

The bull charged forward, and had the youth been in the spot where he
had just stood he would have been gored to death.

The bull had a ring in his nose, and Bob now saw that he was of the
wildest sort, and evidently used to being chained.

“If I had an axe, I would knock him on the head,” said Bob, as he again
dodged. “There goes the satchel. I’ll bet he smashed every bottle in
it.”

For the bull had planted his foot on the travelling bag, and Bob had
heard the crash of glass.

Again the wild animal made for Bob, his eyes glaring like two balls of
red fire.

“He has escaped from somebody,” thought Bob. “I wonder what I had best
do?”

While Bob continued to dodge around among the brush he heard the sounds
of voices.

“Hullo there, help!” he cried out.

“Is that bull there?” came back almost immediately.

“He is, horns and all,” returned Bob. “And the sooner you capture him
the better I will like it.”

“Drat the luck!” returned another voice. “Hi, hi!”

Presently two farmers came in sight, opposite to where Bob stood. One
carried a gad and the other a chain and clasp.

“It’s him, sure enough,” said one of the farmers. “Look out, if you
don’t want to be killed!” he yelled.

“I am looking out,” said Bob. “By jinks!”

The bull had made another charge, and the young photographer had to
step lively to get out of reach.

“If he was mine, I’d knock him on the head with an axe,” said Bob.
“He’s too dangerous to leave running around.”

“He broke away this morning,” replied one of the farmers. “He belongs
up to the county fair. They had a high old time before he got out of
the back gate.”

“And you’ll have a high old time before you get him back, I’m
thinking,” laughed Bob, who was now beginning to relish the scene.

“I guess you’re right. What’s that thing?”

“My satchel. He just smashed it.”

“Humph! It’s good luck he didn’t smash you instead of the bag.”

“That’s so, too. How do you propose to catch him?”

“Bless me if I know.”

“I want ter git the chain on to him if I kin,” put in the other farmer.

“That’s easier said than done. Hold up, give me that chain.”

Bob snatched the chain from the man’s hand.

The bull was at that moment standing under a tree, the lower branches
of which were just over his back.

Bob ran up behind the animal and in a twinkle was up the tree.

Then he crawled out on the branches until he was near the bull’s head.

At that instant the bull looked up. Quick as a flash Bob bent down and
hooked the chain in to the ring in the animal’s nose.

The bull gave a loud snort and tried to lower his head.

But before he could do so Bob had the chain wound around the branch
several times, and he held fast with all his might.

The bull pulled hard, but though the branch bent pretty low, it did not
break.

“Well, I swan!” cried one of the farmers. “If that ain’t the cutest
trick I ever see.”

“Don’t yer tumble on to him, or he’ll gore yer ter jelly!” yelled the
other farmer.

Bob fastened the end of the chain so that it could not slip, and then
slid down on the opposite side of the tree.

By this time pulling on the chain had begun to hurt the bull’s nose,
and he quieted down, although his eyes rolled as fiercely as ever.

“He’s safe there for the present,” said Bob. “The best thing you can do
is to get another chain and hobble him.”

“We’ll get his regular keeper,” returned one of the farmers. “By gosh,
but ain’t he a regular picter with his nose stuck up in the air!”

This remark gave Bob a sudden idea. He ran back for his camera, and
setting it up, hastily took a picture of the captured beast.

“I’ll send it to Frank,” he said to himself. “It will remind him of the
time we tried to photograph that elephant.”

While Bob was taking the picture and looking over the wreck of his
satchel, one of the farmers made off to notify the keeper of the prize
bull of what had occurred. He returned in a short while, having met the
keeper on the road.

A number of ropes and chains were procured, and before long the bull
was under complete control. The keeper spoke kindly to him, and
gradually the fierce light in the bull’s eyes died out utterly, and he
became as gentle as an ordinary animal.

“A woman teased him with a red parasol,” explained the man to Bob.
“Otherwise he would never have acted in this fashion. I will be able
to lead him back without further trouble, mark my word.”

And when he started, the bull went along just as if nothing out of the
ordinary had happened.

As there were no more pictures to be taken that day, Bob followed the
keeper and the two farmers to the county fair, which was being held
on the outskirts of Dartinville. He was allowed in without buying a
ticket, and when he met the owner of the bull, that individual promptly
offered to pay for all damages done.

“Well, the chemicals in the bag were worth about six dollars,” said Bob.

“And the satchel?”

“I don’t know. It was a gift.”

“Will a ten-dollar bill cover it?”

“I think so.”

“Then here is a twenty--ten for your loss and ten for your ingenuity in
helping us capture the bull.”

Bob pocketed the cash with thanks. The adventure had been rather a
perilous one, but on the whole he had enjoyed it.

Buying himself a pocketful of peanuts, Bob strolled around the
grounds. He was not much interested in the display of prize fruit and
vegetables, having seen too much of this stuff while working on the
farm.

But the side-shows attracted his attention. They had big paintings hung
outside, and Bob had seen very little of anything like it before.

“Walk up, ladies and gentlemen, and see the most marvellous exhibition
on the face of the globe!” cried out one of the side-show spouters.
“The bearded lady from Georgia, the four-legged man from California,
and the celebrated glass-eater, Mazzati, from the Island of Borneo.
Admission but a dime, and if you are not satisfied we will refund you
your money.”

Bob listened for a while, and during the time he was doing so he saw
a tall figure walk up to the stand, buy a ticket, and enter the dirty
tent.

It was Joel Carrow.

“Gracious, he must be treating himself,” thought Bob. “A whole ten
cents spent at one time, not to say anything about the price of
admission to the fair grounds. I have half a mind to follow him in and
see what he has to say when we meet.”

Bob thought over the matter for a moment. Then he dropped a dime into
the doorkeeper’s hand and passed inside the show-tent.

As he expected, the show--if it may be designated by that name--was the
worst kind of a swindle. The bearded lady’s beard was a false one--the
four-legged man had two artificial limbs, and the glass-eater ate
nothing more brittle than a peculiar kind of rock candy.

Only half a dozen visitors were inside the tent, and they stared
stupidly around, first at the so-called curiosities and then at one
another.

Bob looked for Joel Carrow, who had inspected the “curiosities,”
and was now making his way to a corner of the tent where stood a
flashily-dressed man, having before him a small show-case and a box
filled with envelopes.

The show-case was laden with articles of jewelry, each bearing a
certain number.

“Here’s your chance to make money,” said the flashily-dressed man.
“Each of the envelopes in this box contains a number, and that number
can be found on some articles of jewelry in the case. The price of an
envelope is only twenty-five cents, and there are no blanks. Try your
luck and win the gold watch or the diamond scarf-pin, either of which
is worth fifty dollars.”

Joel Carrow was interested. He did not know that none of the envelopes
contained the number corresponding to the articles of any value in the
case. It was true there were no blanks, but it was also true there were
no prizes of a greater cash value than five cents.

“I’ll try my luck,” said Carrow, after some hesitation, and he passed
over twenty-five cents.

“I think I’ll watch this,” thought Bob. “That man will try to swindle
Carrow all he can.”




CHAPTER XVIII

BOB SHOWS UP A SWINDLER


Bob had no great feeling of love for the miserly farmer who had so
misused him, yet he did not intend to stand calmly by and see Joel
Carrow done out of his money.

He had heard of this prize-package swindle while in Stampton, and he
knew exactly how it was worked.

The flashily-dressed man took in Carrow at a glance, and also noted
that the farmer carried a well-filled pocket-book.

He thought Carrow would prove well worth plucking, and smiled broadly.

“One package? We sell five for a dollar. You had better try it. You may
win all large prizes.”

“I’ll try one first,” replied Carrow, cautiously.

The man handed out the box. One of the envelopes projected slightly
beyond the rest, and this Carrow took.

“Number 37,” he said, reading from a slip. “What’s that good fer?”

“Number 37 takes this elegant ruby scarf-pin, worth eight dollars,”
replied the swindler, handing over a pin that was nothing but a bit of
colored glass and brass. “You’re in luck.”

“Is the pin worth eight dollars?” questioned Carrow, doubtfully.

“Certainly. Would you rather have five dollars in cash? That is what
they cost direct from the manufacturers. Many jewellers sell them for
double the money.”

It will be noticed that the swindler did not say he would give five
dollars for the pin, although he led Carrow to believe he would.

This remark made the old farmer feel good.

“N-no; I’ll keep the pin.”

“Very well. Try again? Remember, only one dollar for five.”

“Well, I dun no,” and Carrow scratched his head.

“Let me show you something.” The swindler pretended to shake up the box
of envelopes. “How is this?”

He drew out an envelope. The number inside was fifty, and this called
for the watch said to be worth fifty dollars.

“Gosh!” murmured Carrow, in admiration. “I wish I had drew it.”

“Nothing easier. See here, I will place the number back into the
envelope and put the envelope back into the box. There it goes. Now
remember, you know as well as I it has got the number entitling you to
the fifty-dollar watch. You most likely know just where it is. Try it
for fun.”

Carrow did so. Sure enough, his sharp eyes had followed the right
envelope and the number was within it.

“Now I’ll try it again. There it goes, just as before. If you want
to win, I’ll give you the chance. For ten dollars you may draw three
envelopes. You are bound to strike the right one in one out of three.”

Carrow’s eyes sparkled. He was sure he had his eye on the right
envelope.

He drew out his pocket-book to get out his ten dollars.

At this instant Bob brushed up to him. The young photographer had
watched proceedings closely, and he knew exactly what had occurred.

“Don’t try it, or you will lose,” he whispered.

Carrow started back as if shot.

“What, Bob Alden!” he cried.

“Yes, Carrow. Did you hear me?”

“Where did you come from, you scamp?”

“I’m not a scamp, Carrow.”

“You--you----” blustered the farmer, hardly knowing what to say.

“I want no words with you,” replied Bob. “I merely meant to warn you.
This is a swindle.”

“A swindle!” gasped Carrow.

“What’s that?” put in the sharper, roughly.

“I am talking to this man,” returned the young photographer.

“He says it’s a swindle,” put in Carrow.

“You had better mind your own business, young man. What right have you
to interfere here?”

“The right of anybody to show you up,” returned Bob, bravely. “You
sha’n’t swindle this man out of ten dollars if I can help it.”

“How do yer know it’s a swindle?” asked Carrow, faintly.

“Because he didn’t put the number in the envelope.”

“Are yer sure o’ thet?”

“Yes.”

“Nonsense!” cried the swindler. “This is a perfectly honest game of
chance.”

“He had two numbers in his hand. The first time he placed one of them
in the envelope, but this time he placed the other, and you can be sure
it wasn’t the fifty.”

“See here, you get out of here!” cried the swindler, in a rage. “I have
a good mind to have you arrested for interfering with my business.”

“You may have me arrested if you wish,” replied the young photographer,
coolly.

The swindler rushed from behind his stand and caught Bob by the arm.

“Let go!”

“You get right out of here.”

Bob pulled himself away. The row had attracted the attention of several
in the tent and they now interfered.

“Leave the boy alone!”

“He told the truth; that game is always a swindle!”

“The whole show is a swindle!”

“That’s so, too.”

The crowd shoved forward, and the swindler move back to his stand.

As he brushed past Bob he muttered into the youth’s ear:

“I’ll get square with you some time for this!”

“Perhaps I won’t give you the chance,” replied Bob, aloud.

In the disturbance Joel Carrow slipped away without even thanking Bob
for the service which had been rendered to him.

“But that’s just like him,” thought Bob. “He wouldn’t thank me even if
I saved his life.”

He left the tent with several others, the swindler shaking his fist
after the youth.

By this time the fair was about over for the day, and after a short
walk among the exhibits in the main building, Bob left the grounds.

He had accepted Willett’s invitation to remain at the latter’s house
all night, and when he reached the place he found supper awaiting him.

The family were all seated out on the porch, and they made such a
fine group that Bob took a tintype of them, while it was still light,
he having brought along an outfit for such pictures. The tintype he
presented to Mrs. Willett, much to that lady’s pleasure.

“I should think it would be fun taking pictures,” said she.

“And worth money, too,” added her husband.

“It is both, and it is also perilous,” returned Bob, and he told of the
adventure with the prize bull.

“My! it’s lucky you weren’t killed!” cried the woman. “Weren’t you
scared?”

“I was at first. But I am having so many adventures I am getting used
to them.”

Bob learned that the horse which had plunged into the creek was
doing nicely, and would in all likelihood recover entirely from his
involuntary bath.

Bob had never been in Dartinville before, and after supper, and while
it was still light, he took a stroll though the town. He stopped at the
drug-store and there purchased such chemicals as had been lost in the
smashed satchel.

“Now if one of those plates turn out all right, I’ll be ready to start
off first thing in the morning,” he thought.

Bob did not know that his entrance into the drug-store had been noted,
yet such was a fact.

The man who had tried to swindle Joel Carrow was stopping at the hotel
opposite the place of business, and he was now seated on the piazza,
smoking a cigar.

“There’s the boy who caused me so much trouble this afternoon,”
muttered the swindler. “I promised to get square with him, and I will.”

Throwing away his cigar, he ran down the piazza steps and took up a
place behind a tree.

He had not long to wait. With the chemicals in a small package in his
left hand, Bob came out of the drug-store and walked toward the Willett
home.

It was getting dark now, and the young photographer wished to develop
the pictures he had taken before retiring.

With a look of intense hatred in his face, the swindler followed Bob
until they came to a dark spot in the road and caught the youth by the
collar.




CHAPTER XIX

BOB ON THE ROAD


For the instant Bob could not make out who had caught hold of him. The
road was dark, and the fair-ground swindler had come up in his rear.

He thought he must be the victim of some footpad, and, dropping his
bundle of chemicals, he strove to break away.

“Let go of me!” he cried.

“I will when I have you where I want you,” returned the swindler.

Bob fancied he recognized the voice, but he was not sure. He renewed
his struggle and had almost succeeded in breaking away when the
swindler hit him a blow in the neck that dazed him.

“Now we’ll see who’s ahead,” hissed the man. “I’ll teach you to
interfere with Joe Horning’s business.”

“I’ll give you away to the police the next time,” returned Bob,
although rather faintly. “Let go your hold!”

“Not much! See here, you served me a mean trick, and I promised to get
square. I don’t intend to lose ten dollars for nothing. How much have
you got in your pockets?”

“More than you’ll ever get,” cried Bob, growing desperate. “Will you
let go?”

“I told you before I would not.”

“Then take that!”

Bob had by this time somewhat recovered from the blow in the neck.
He now hauled off with his right fist and let the swindler have it
straight in the mouth.

Bob threw all his muscle in the blow. It caught Joe Horning in the
upper lip, and not only drew the blood, but also loosened two of the
swindler’s front teeth.

The swindler began to splutter, and he put up one of his hands to his
mouth.

Thus partially released, Bob twisted himself free from the other hand,
rolled over and sprang up.

Joe Horning had not anticipated such resentment on Bob’s part, and he
was surprised in addition to being hurt. He stepped back into the road,
and made a movement as if to draw a pistol.

“I’ll fix you!” he muttered, after spitting out a mouthful of blood.

Whether the swindler had a pistol or not, Bob did not know. But he
was determined to take no risk with so desperate a character, and,
springing forward, he closed in on Horning.

The two rolled over into the dirt of the road, and for a while it was a
question as to which would come out on top. Horning was at first under,
but he was a strong man, and he now put forth every effort to get the
best of the young photographer.

“You think you’re mighty fly, but I’ll show you,” he puffed.

To this Bob made no reply. He saw he had a hard task before him, but he
did not intend to waste breath.

Horning tried to roll over several times, but Bob held him down, until,
when he could do nothing else, the swindler bit the young photographer
in the finger.

It was not a hard bite, but it was so painful and unexpected that Bob
was for the moment taken off his guard.

In that moment Horning pushed the youth aside and sprang on top.

“This is my innings. Pass over that ten dollars that is coming to me.”

“I won’t do it.”

“I say you shall. Come, be quick!”

Horning tried to get one of his hands into Bob’s vest pocket. That
pocket contained seventeen dollars in bills, and Bob struggled
vigorously to save his money.

Just then there came the sounds of carriage wheels on the road. Bob,
lying on his back, heard them first and brightened up. Perhaps help
was close at hand.

At last the swindler succeeded in getting his fingers into the pocket.
The tips came in contact with the roll of bills, and he renewed his
efforts to gain possession of the money.

He had just succeeded in getting the bills in his grasp, when he
noticed the approaching carriage. He tried to spring away, but Bob held
him fast.

“Help, help!” cried the young photographer.

The carriage came to a sudden stop. A man sat on the front seat, whip
in hand.

“What’s up?” he cried, curiously.

“This fellow is robbing me. Help!”

The man made a leap to the road. Horning saw him coming, and he tried
his best to wrench himself away.

But Bob’s hold was a good one, and although the swindler kicked him
several times, he did not relinquish it until the new arrival had
Horning by the collar.

Then Bob jumped up, and caught the fellow by the arm.

“Don’t let him escape,” he cried to the man from the carriage.

“I’ve got him fast enough,” returned the stranger. “So he was trying to
rob you, eh?”

“Yes. He has a roll of bills he took from my vest pocket.”

“That’s not so!” cried Horning. “I have nothing but some loose change
in my possession.”

“Then he threw the roll away when you came up,” said Bob. “He took it
from my vest pocket only a second ago.”

“Strike a match and take a look around,” suggested the stranger. “He
may have flung it away as you say.”

Bob quickly lit a match, and then several more. In a few minutes he
found the bills, lying to one side in the dust.

“I have them,” he cried.

“What will you do with this fellow?” asked the stranger. “If you say
so, we can take him to my uncle, who is the squire.”

“I think that would be best,” said Bob. “He attacked me because
I exposed his swindling methods in a side-show at the fair this
afternoon.”

“Oh, I heard about that! So you are the chap, and this is the swindler.”

“Yes,” returned Bob. “Shall we walk him there, or can you take him in
your carriage?”

“Take him in the carriage.”

“Is it far?”

“About five minutes’ drive.”

“All right. Come, get in the carriage!” went on Bob, turning to Horning.

“See here, gents, this is rather rough,” returned the swindler. All
the bluster and bravery seemed to have died out of him.

“It’s not any worse than you deserve,” said Bob.

“No, I ain’t that kind. I sometimes go in for a bit of fun, but----”

“You can do your talking when you are locked up,” said the stranger.
“Now get in at once.”

He assisted Horning up on the front seat, still retaining his hold on
the fellow’s collar.

“Now you had better take a seat in the rear,” said he to Bob. “You will
find a heavy stick under the seat. Don’t hesitate to use it if he tries
to escape.”

Bob was about to enter the carriage, when suddenly Horning sprang up
and hit the stranger on the breast. The blow was so unexpected that the
carriage owner reeled backward. He would have struck on his head had
not Bob caught him.

“Get up!” cried Horning to the horse, and the animal moved forward.

The swindler caught up the reins, and away went the carriage, leaving
Bob in the middle of the road supporting the carriage owner, who had
not yet recovered.

“Whoa!” cried the youth to the horse, but the animal paid no attention,
and soon swindler and turn-out had disappeared in the darkness.

“Well, that’s a fine mess!” cried the carriage owner as he recovered
himself. “He got the best of Jack Hicks that time, and no mistake.”

“What is best to be done?” questioned Bob.

“I must go after him,” replied Hicks.

“You can’t do it on foot.”

“I’ll borrow a rig from Edgar Willett.”

“Do you know him? I am stopping at his house.”

“Oh, yes, he is an old friend of mine.”

The two hurried off, and soon reached the Willett homestead. Willett
had gone to bed, but he quickly dressed and got out a horse and light
spring wagon.

He wished to accompany Hicks, but his wife persuaded him to remain at
home.

“I suppose I can go?” said Bob.

“Certainly. Jump in.”

Bob placed his chemicals in a safe place, and a minute later the spring
wagon was on the road, spinning along in the direction Horning had
taken.

“Are there any side roads near here?” asked the young photographer,
after a drive of several minutes in silence.

“Not for fully a mile from here.”

“We ought to try to catch him before he has a chance of branching off.”

“That’s what I am thinking. The trouble is my horse is a pretty fast
stepper, although he is rather tired just now.”

On and on they went through the darkness.

Presently Hicks drew up rather suddenly, and pointed to one side of the
road.

“There is a cow-path in here,” he said. “He might have gone this way.”

“And he did,” said Bob.

“How do you know?”

“There is your horse and carriage standing in the bushes.”




CHAPTER XX

BOB IN THE WOODS


The young photographer was right. There, scarcely ten yards away, were
the horse and the wagon.

Hicks at once jumped down and strode over to the turn-out. Bob followed.

“Is it O. K.?” queried Bob.

“Seems to be. He drove the horse for all he knew how,” responded Hicks.

“Which way do you think he went?”

“Can’t say. It’s so infernally dark it will be impossible to follow him
up.”

“Well, I’m glad you got your rig back.”

“So am I. Yes, it’s all right, too.”

“Let me have the lantern a moment.”

“What for?”

“I’ll see if he left any trace behind.”

Bob took the lantern and made a close search. But though there were
foot-marks, there were too many to trace out those made by the swindler.

“What is beyond here?” asked the young photographer as he returned the
lantern to the spring wagon.

“This cow-path leads to Gus Freeman’s barn-yard.”

“Is it far?”

“Quite a walk. There is a short cut over the fields.”

“Then supposing we take a walk up that way? We may head the fellow off.”

“That’s so. Wait till I tie both horses and we’ll go.”

To a person not accustomed to outdoor life, walking over the rough
fields would have been no easy task, but Bob was used to it, and he
easily kept up with Hicks’s long strides.

When they reached the barn-yard of which Hicks had spoken, they found
it dark and silent. The house stood some distance away, but there,
also, was no sign of life.

“He must have branched off,” said Hicks, as they came to a halt near
the stile.

“Perhaps, but--hist! what was that?”

Bob pointed to the rear of the cow-shed as he spoke. A movement of some
kind had attracted his attention.

“I didn’t see anything.”

“It looked to me like a man moving about.”

“Perhaps it was Freeman’s colt. He leaves him out here over night.”

But Bob shook his head. He was certain that what he had seen was not a
horse.

“I’m going up and find out,” he said. “You stay here and watch for a
move from below.”

“All right. If you see him, whistle.”

Bob moved away through the semi-darkness. Passing along the rail fence
to the end of the barn he hopped over, and, without making a sound,
crossed to the cow-shed.

As he did so, a form sprang away from the shed and darted around the
corner of the barn. Bob was sure it was the form of Joe Horning.

He gave a whistle to notify Hicks, and then ran after the man, who by
this time had passed the barn and was making for a corn-field situated
some distance to the right.

As we know, Bob was a good runner, and now he put forth his best
effort, hoping to catch Horning before he entered the field.

But in this he was unsuccessful. The swindler gained the field, and in
a moment vanished among the tall rows of corn.

Now, any one who has been in a field of tall corn knows full well how
difficult it is to see in any direction over a distance of ten feet.

Bob ran after Horning, but once in the field he depended altogether on
his ears to guide him toward the fellow.

He heard Horning making his way down the slope toward the creek, and he
concluded that the swindler knew nothing of the “lay of the land.”

Presently Bob heard a splash, and he knew the man had reached the
creek. He rushed straight ahead, and was just in time to see Horning
wading knee-deep across to the stony field beyond.

“He means to escape, if the thing can be done,” thought Bob. “I wonder
if I can’t jump over and thus save myself a wetting?”

He gave a loud whistle for Hicks’s benefit, and then, drawing back
several paces, took the leap.

Bob was a good jumper, and he cleared the creek with nearly a foot to
spare.

Horning by this time was making up the rocky slope which led to a patch
of timber land, rather sparingly overgrown. He looked behind, and,
seeing that Bob was still following, redoubled his speed.

But Bob was more used to such travelling than the swindler from the
city, and he kept gaining on Horning, until, when the other side of the
timber was reached, he was not more than a hundred feet behind.

Again he whistled to Hicks, but whether he was answered or not he was
unable to tell.

“I’ll have to fight it out alone,” thought Bob, grimly. “Well, I won’t
give him the ghost of a chance this trip. He’ll find he can’t nip my
finger for nothing.”

“You might as well stop, Horning!” he called out.

“I believe I will,” returned the man, and he turned about and waited
for Bob to come up.

“Do you give in?”

“Certainly not. I am no fool.”

“We are two to one.”

Horning started. He had supposed Bob alone.

“Who is with you?”

“Never mind, you’ll soon see.”

Bob gave another whistle, but to his dismay he received no answer.

He did not know that Hicks was slightly hard of hearing, and had only
heard the signal when Bob was comparatively close by.

In perplexity over the non-appearance of Hicks, Bob looked around for a
stick. He soon found one, and, picking it up, he brandished it in the
air.

“Now, we’ll see who is the best man. Do you see that light over in the
cottage yonder?”

“Not being blind, I do,” returned Horning, sarcastically.

“Well, you’ll walk straight for it.”

“I won’t, and you can’t make me.”

As Horning spoke, he sprang at Bob. The young photographer took a step
back, and then brought down the stick with all force.

The blow caught Horning in the arm, and he uttered a shrill cry of pain.

“You have broken my arm!”

“Not quite as bad as that I hope,” said Bob. “Do you intend to mind
now?”

“No.”

Again the swindler made a dash for Bob.

Once more the stick descended, but this time Horning dodged, and,
putting out his foot, he tripped Bob up.

When the young photographer arose, Horning was again running as fast
as his long legs would permit. But Bob was equal to the emergency. He
picked up a stone, and, with unerring aim, flung it at the retreating
form.

The missile caught Horning in the back of the head. He staggered, tried
to recover, and then fell forward.

He was partly stunned, and before he recovered Bob was on top of him.
In his pocket the young photographer had a strong cord, and with this
he bound Horning’s hands behind him.

“You have broken my skull!” moaned Horning, completely subdued when he
saw how helpless he now was.

“No more broken than is your arm,” returned Bob. “Will you go along
now?”

“No.”

“Want another dose of that stick, eh?”

“Hold up! I’ll go. Oh, my head!”

“We’ll have your head attended to as soon as I have you in a safe
place. Come on!”

Bob caught Horning by the arm, and both walked toward the cottage, from
the window of which a light was streaming.

Bob had no idea who occupied the place, but he thought it would be
likely he would find somebody to give him assistance.

Arriving at the cottage, he knocked on the door. There was at once a
commotion inside, and Bob fancied that the light was lowered.

“Who’s there?” came in rather a rough voice.

“I want help,” said Bob.

The door was opened cautiously, and the next moment Bob was nearly
dumfounded to find himself confronted by Mike Grogan.




CHAPTER XXI

BOB TAKES A RISK


If the young photographer was astonished, so was the Irishman.

“Phat, you?” he gasped.

“Mike Grogan!” ejaculated Bob.

He darted a swift glance around the interior of the room, and was even
more taken back than before by beholding Casco and Barker seated at the
table, a bottle between them.

“It’s that Alden boy,” cried Casco.

“Alden!” exclaimed Barker, jumping up. “How did he find out we were
here?”

“I don’t know.”

“Is he alone?”

“No; there is a man with him, and hang me if it isn’t Joe Horning.”

“What, Joe Horning the circus fakir?”

“Yes.”

“What does he want?”

“Give it up.”

Barker moved toward the door, which Grogan still held open.

Bob was trying to think. What should he do? Confronting the villainous
trio had completely upset his calculations.

He had half a mind to run away. It was certain the trio would help
Horning and not himself when they understood the situation.

But Casco seemed to realize what was passing through the young
photographer’s mind, for with a quick movement he sprang past Grogan
and caught Bob by the arm.

“Come in here!” he said, sharply.

Bob marched into the place. Horning followed, and then the door was
locked, and the Irishman placed the key in his pocket.

Bob glanced around curiously. He saw that the cottage contained nothing
but a rude table, and several boxes for seats, and rightly conjectured
that the trio had found it deserted and made of it a temporary
rendezvous.

“Now tell me what brings you here?” demanded Barker, facing Bob,
savagely.

“I came to get help,” returned the youth, as coolly as he could.

“Help! What for?”

“To take this man to the lock-up.”

“What! Horning?”

“Yes.”

“That’s rich.”

And both Barker and Casco laughed.

“Shake,” said Casco to the fakir.

“I can’t, my hands are tied,” returned Horning, rather sheepishly.

“Blame me if they ain’t. So the boy had you a prisoner, Joe.”

“Yes,” growled the swindler. “He hit me in the head with a rock first
and knocked me silly.” He did not fancy having the others think he had
been overpowered by a boy.

“Why was he after you?”

“We had a row up to the fair grounds.”

“I was after him because he tried to steal my money and then stole a
horse and carriage,” returned Bob.

There was a general laugh, but at whose expense it was hard to say.

Casco cut the cord which bound Horning. The first thing the swindler
did when released was to confront Bob.

“I’ve a good mind to fix you for that crack in the head,” he cried.

“Hold up, Joe, he’s our game,” interrupted Casco.

“He is,” added Barker.

“An’ don’t worrhy but phat we’ll git square wid him,” said Grogan.

“You seem to know him pretty well,” remarked Horning.

“We do,” said Casco. He turned to Bob. “See here, how long have you
been following us since you escaped from Cabot’s place?”

“I haven’t been following you at all.”

“I don’t believe you.”

“Well, if you know better, what do you ask me for?”

“Don’t get impudent. Do you know that you are in our power?”

“Seems to me I was in your power before,” and Bob grinned.

“Sure, an’ he’s a terror,” remarked Grogan.

“He is that,” said Horning. “But I say, what are you three fellows
doing out here? I thought you were in New York.”

Barker winked at him. The wink was not intended to reach Bob, but,
nevertheless, the youth caught it.

“They are up to no good, that’s certain,” he thought. “If they were
merely hiding from the authorities, they would choose some more
congenial spot than this.”

Barker now produced a rope, and was about to tie Bob up when Grogan
came forward.

“Phat’s the good o’ that?” he asked. “Sure, an’ the b’y kin git out o’
it loike a snake.”

“You’re right,” said Casco. “He’s the imp’s own. Put him in one of the
back rooms and place Mike to watch him. I want to talk to Joe.”

Grogan’s face fell a little, but when Casco said he could take the
bottle along for company the Irishman was reconciled.

Barker conducted Bob to a room separate from that now occupied. Here
the young photographer was tied to a support under a heavy shelf and
left in care of Grogan.

Grogan at once settled himself on a box, and, filling his pipe, lit it.

“As yez don’t drink, Oi’ll take a sup fer yez,” he said, and took a
deep potion.

“What are you fellows doing up here, Grogan?” asked Bob, as cheerfully
as he could.

“Ax me no questions,” muttered Grogan. “If ye want ter think o’
somethin’ cheerful, think o’ how we will trate ye in the marnin’.”

Bob was compelled to shiver, and he became silent. Once more was he in
the power of this lawless set of men.

Quarter of an hour dragged by. Grogan sat calmly smoking, with his
small eyes fastened on the young photographer. He did not intend to
give the youth the first chance to escape.

Bob heard the murmur of voices, and he knew Casco, Barker, and Horning
were talking over some matter of importance.

While the time slipped slowly by, Bob heard a distant rumble which came
closer and then died away utterly.

“It must have been a train. I did not know we were so close to the
tracks,” thought the youth.

Presently Grogan took another drink, and again lit his pipe. But now
Bob noticed that the Irishman did not puff so vigorously as before. Was
he growing drowsy?

Fervidly the youth hoped so. He watched Grogan as a cat watches a
mouse, and he was filled with hope when he saw the man’s pipe fall and
the Irishman make no effort to restore it to his mouth.

“Now is my chance!” said Bob to himself, and he set swiftly to work to
free himself.

As Grogan was to watch the prisoner, Barker had been rather careless in
tying Bob up. The bonds were soon slipped off, and then raising one of
the windows Bob leaped out.

Just as he did so, Grogan started up. Seeing the youth disappear
through the opening, he gave a loud cry, which soon brought the others
to the scene.

“Where is he, Mike?”

“After him, boys!”

“Yes; he must not get away this time!”

Meanwhile Bob was running away as fast as his feet could move. When
about a hundred yards from the cottage, he looked back and saw that all
four men were in pursuit.

On he dashed until striking a stone with his toe he went down flat on
the ground.

He arose as quickly as possible, but the time lost had enabled his
pursuers almost to close the distance between them.

Bob was now but fifty feet from the railroad tracks, which were
situated on a small embankment. As he ran up toward the tracks, he saw
a slow freight approaching.

Should he board one of the cars? It might afford an excellent means of
escape.

With a glare of the head-light the train came along. Bob ran to meet
it, with the four men not far behind him. A moment later Bob was on the
train.




CHAPTER XXII

BOB ON THE FREIGHT TRAIN


The young photographer did not have the chance to look back at his
pursuers. He had one foot on the iron step of the car, and, though the
train was going at a slow rate of speed, he found it no easy task to
draw himself up on the narrow platform.

“Come back!” he heard Barker cry.

He paid no attention to the order, satisfied that anything would be
preferable to falling again into the hands of the villainous crowd who
were pursuing him.

At last, with a mighty effort, the youth drew himself up. The ladder
leading to the top of the car was close at hand and to this he clung
while the train swung around a curve and out of sight of those left on
the embankment.

“By jinks! but that was a narrow escape!” muttered Bob to himself as he
drew a long breath.

Bob remained where he was for five minutes or more, trying to regain
his breath and collect his thoughts at the same time.

“I would like to know what those men are doing out here,” he
soliloquized. “Maybe they are planning to rob a house in the vicinity.
They are certainly up to no good.”

The freight train made a strong rumble as it moved along, but presently
Bob fancied he heard footsteps on the top of the car behind him.

He was not mistaken, for in a moment the form of a man appeared
overhead. The man looked down, as if searching for something.

“One of the train-hands most likely,” thought Bob. “Maybe he saw what
took place, and wants to know what it is all about.”

Bob was about to call out, when he made a discovery that filled him
with surprise.

The man above was James Casco.

Casco had jumped aboard the sixth car behind the one boarded by the
young photographer.

That he was bent on searching out Bob the youth felt certain, and
he crouched low as the man bent down to get a better view in the
semi-darkness.

“Must be the next platform,” Bob heard Casco mutter. “Although I was
almost certain it was this one.”

He was about to pass on, when just then the train rolled past a
farm-house, from the upper windows of which streamed a strong light.

The light fell directly upon Bob, and Casco caught a full view of him.

“So I have found you, eh?” muttered the scar-faced man, with a gleam of
satisfaction in his eyes.

“What do you want here?” demanded Bob.

“You know well enough, Alden.”

“I must confess I do not.”

“You think, now you have discovered our plans, you will inform the
authorities and have us all bagged.”

“What makes you think that?” asked Bob, with interest, for he did not
know the men had any plans.

“I can put two and two together. You were in that neighborhood tracking
us.”

“You seem to know all about it.”

“I have watched you on the sly. Do you deny that you also called on
Gregory Maverick?”

“What has that got to do with it?”

“You know as well as I, Alden. But it won’t do you any good. You might
as well give up trying to hunt down this crowd. It can’t be done.”

Bob was much mystified by this speech. Evidently Casco took it for
granted that he knew much more than was a fact.

“Perhaps I can do more than you think, Casco,” he said, on a venture.

“You can, if I allow you to get away, maybe, but I don’t intend any
such thing shall happen.”

“What do you mean?”

“Simply this: You imagine you can ride through to Stampton on this
train, don’t you?”

“Perhaps so.”

“And when you arrive there, you will call on Maverick and the chief of
police and send word all along the line to search for us. You will do
nothing of the sort.”

“Who will prevent me?” questioned Bob, as calmly as he could, even
though he knew what to expect by way of an answer.

“Who will prevent you? I will.”

“I don’t see how.”

“I’ll show you. Do you see this?”

As Casco spoke, he shoved the muzzle of a pistol down in the
neighborhood of the young photographer’s head.

“Do you intend to kill me in cold blood?”

“I intend to make you mind me, Alden. When I give the command, you will
jump from the train.”

Bob shrank back in horror. The freight train was now moving at the rate
of twenty miles an hour, and a jump would be full of peril.

He looked around for some means by which to protect himself. But the
narrow platform was bare, and he was without weapon of any kind.

“What if I do some firing on my own account?” Bob asked, more to gain
time than anything else.

“Have you a pistol?”

Instead of replying, Bob made a leap upward, and before Casco could
draw back the youth had hold of the pistol and had wrenched it from his
hand.

“Stop!” cried the scar-faced man. “Give me that pistol!”

“I’ll give you one of the bullets. Stay where you are.”

With the pistol in one hand, Bob turned and ran up the iron ladder to
the top of the adjoining car.

As he did this, Casco, instead of complying with Bob’s command, arose
and hurried along the top plank of the freight car.

“Stop!” cried Bob, jumping across the opening and making after the
rascal.

But it was too dark to see the planking clearly, and afraid of missing
his footing, the young photographer was compelled to go slow.

Casco, on the other hand, had once been a brakeman, and he ran over the
planking of several cars at a lively rate, and then disappeared from
view.

With the pistol ready for use, Bob made his way along, until he came
face to face with one of the train-hands.

“Hullo, Jack, is that you?” called out the man.

“No,” replied Bob, and added: “I am after a thief who is aboard this
train. Did he just pass you?”

“Nobody passed me. You are sure he is on board?”

“He was a minute ago.”

And, as briefly as possible, Bob related what had occurred.

“He must be a desperate fellow,” said the train-hand, with a shake of
his head.

“He is, and I want to catch him the worst way.”

“Humph! Well, let us take a look with the lantern. We don’t want any
such fellows on this train.”

The man got his lantern from the caboose, and the two began a rapid
search around each car.

“He might have dropped down on one of the platforms and swung himself
into one of the empty cars,” suggested the train-hand. “Or he might
have jumped off.”

“I don’t think he jumped off,” replied Bob. “Let us look into those
cars just ahead.”

The train-hand went ahead, and not without difficulty swung himself
into one of the empty cars.

Seeing how the thing was done, Bob started to do the same upon the car
ahead.

He reached the guide upon which the door hung, and was making his way
along it toward the opening when Casco’s head suddenly appeared from
out of the empty car.

“Now I have you!” cried the scar-faced man. He reached out, and,
catching Bob by the arm, attempted to throw the young photographer from
the train.




CHAPTER XXIII

BOB FORMS A RESOLUTION


The attack was so sudden and unexpected that Bob had all he could do to
hold on with the remaining hand.

“Let up!” he cried.

“Not much! Off you go, Alden!”

“Help! help!” cried Bob.

He attempted to draw back on the platform, but Casco held him fast by
the arm, while at the same time trying to push him away from his hold.

“What’s up?” cried the train-hand from the other car.

“Here he is! Help me!” returned Bob.

“I will.”

Casco’s face fell when he heard that Bob had help close at hand. He
made another effort to push the young photographer off, and had almost
succeeded when the train-hand appeared.

“By hookey!” cried the man. “Stop that, you villain!”

Just then Casco succeeded in making Bob let go his hold. But now the
train-hand caught the youth by the arm, and drew him back in safety to
the platform.

“There you are. It was a narrow escape.”

“Thank you!” gasped Bob. “Indeed it was.”

“So he’s safe in that car.”

“Yes.”

“Just wait till I call Jack, and we’ll bag him.”

“All right. But be careful.”

The train-hand ran off over the cars, while Bob, pistol in hand, sat
down to watch for any movement Casco might make.

It was a novel situation, but it cannot be said that Bob enjoyed it.

Five minutes passed. Bob wondered how long the train-hand expected to
be gone. Every second seemed ten to the young photographer.

Suddenly with a shriek of the whistle the freight train slowed up, and
came very nearly to a stop. The train-hand appeared, but, instead of
helping Bob, began to put on brakes as fast as possible.

“Better watch your man,” he cried. “I’ve got to obey the whistle.”

Bob did watch, and almost instantly saw Casco spring from the open car
into a patch of brushwood. The scar-faced man tumbled over, but at once
arose, and ran off through the darkness.

The young photographer’s first impulse was to follow. But then he
reasoned that the darkness was against him, and the district was one
entirely unknown to him.

“He’s gone,” he said to the train-hand as the whistle came to loosen
brakes again.

“Skipped, did he?”

“Yes. What neighborhood is this?”

“We are just coming into Kentown. Here is the station.”

As the man spoke, they rolled into a long, narrow milk depot. Without
waiting to see if the train would come to a stop, Bob called out a
good-night and sprang off.

He met but three men at the depot, and all of these were so busy
handling milk-cans that they could spare no time to hear what he might
have to say.

Finally the young photographer asked if there was a constable in town,
and he was directed to one Aaron Dimler, who lived but a few rods from
the depot.

Bob had a hard time arousing Dimler, but once aroused the constable was
eager to join the youth in a search for the scar-faced man.

“We had better walk up the track to where he jumped off the freight,”
said the constable. “Then I’ll be better able to judge of the direction
he took.”

So the two half-walked, half-ran up the track until Bob called a halt.

“Is this the spot?” asked the constable.

“As near as I can judge it is,” returned Bob.

“There’s a hat. Was that his?”

“Yes.”

“Then you’re right about the spot. Did he start off in that direction?”

“I believe he did.”

“Then the place he would be likely to strike would be Raymond’s
cross-road hotel.”

“How far is that from here?”

“Not over five minutes’ walk. If he’s reached that place, you might as
well give up the hunt.”

“Why?”

“You will never learn anything from Raymond. He is a bad one, and has
been in court half a dozen times.”

“I would like to know if Casco knows him?” mused Bob.

“Even if he didn’t, Raymond would befriend him, if he knew the sort of
chap the man you are after was. He has sheltered more criminals than I
can mention.”

“I am quite interested,” said Bob. “Come on!”

But the constable held back. The fact of the matter was that Raymond
was down on him, and had threatened to make matters warm if he found
Dimler around his hotel.

“We can go in the morning,” said the constable, by way of excuse.

“Casco may be gone by that time, if he is there.”

“I have no papers to search Raymond’s place. I don’t want to get into
trouble.”

“I believe you are afraid,” cried Bob, somewhat angrily. “I will go
alone.”

He turned on his heel at once. Dimler’s brow contracted.

“Well, go on, if you’re so headstrong,” he said, and, as Bob passed out
of hearing, he added: “He’ll have a fine time if he riles Raymond up,
see if he don’t.”

The road was a perfectly straight one, and Bob had but little
difficulty in finding the cross-road hotel Dimler had mentioned.

On the way the young photographer kept his eyes wide open for Casco,
but saw nothing of the scar-faced man. Arriving at Raymond’s hotel,
he found the place to consist of a long, two-story building, with an
addition in the rear running down to the edge of a brook. A dim lamp,
swinging from a post by the stepping-block, lit up the exterior of the
hotel. A light also shone from the bar-room, and sounds of boisterous
laughing reached the youth’s ears.

“They must keep the place wide open all night,” thought Bob. “I think I
will take a look around before I go in.”

Having inspected the front part of the hotel, Bob passed around one
side and then to the back.

Here was situated the kitchen, and, coming closer, Bob heard two
persons conversing in low tones.

One was a man, evidently a stable-hand, and the other a woman-of-all-work.

“What kept you so long, Ike?” asked the woman of the man, who had
evidently just come in.

“The boss wanted me to look out for the billiard-room for a while.”

“Why, where is Dick?”

“Tendin’ bar. He had to do it cos the boss had a visitor just now, an’
he had to show the feller a room.”

“A visitor this time of night? Who was it, any of the old ones?”

“That fellow was here a couple of times last week. He came in a
tremendous hurry, he did.”

“Say, there is something up between the boss an’ that feller,”
commented the woman, as she lit a hand-lamp and moved toward a door.

“What makes you think that, Sadie?”

“Cos he an’ the boss did a pile of whisperin’ the other night, an’ when
the boss does that why----” and the woman finished with a low laugh.

“Well, it ain’t none of our affairs, Sadie.”

“That’s so, so long as we git our wages. But come on to bed.”

“I’m ready. This bein’ up half the night makes me dead tired.”

The woman passed through the door, and, after extinguishing the large
lamp which hung from a bracket, the man followed her.

Bob had listened with keen interest to the conversation between the
pair. One thing was settled. Jim Casco was in the house.

Now what was best to do? Bob knew of no officer whom he could summon
save Dimler, and after the way that individual had acted, the young
photographer did not feel disposed to ask anything further at his hands.

Bob passed back as far as the brook, and here sat down to think matters
over. Several things were quite clear to him.

One was that Casco, Barker, and Grogan were in the vicinity for no good
purpose.

The second was that Casco was acquainted with Raymond, and that he had
called there before. This would tend to the idea that Raymond’s place
was to be a sort of headquarters for the crowd of evildoers.

“I’ll shadow them, and find out what they are up to,” was Bob’s resolve.

And, when Bob made a resolution, he always stuck to it.

Presently, as Bob sat thinking, he saw a light flash from one of the
upper windows of the hotel. Then a curtain was drawn down, and for a
second a profile stood out on the white surface.

The profile was perfect, so perfect, in fact, that the young
photographer had no difficulty in guessing its original.

The profile was that of Casco.




CHAPTER XXIV

BOB STICKS UP FOR A FRIEND


Bob jumped up, and watched the profile eagerly.

Then he saw it disappear, as the light was moved to one side.

“That was Casco, sure,” he said to himself. “And, hello! there’s
somebody else. I wonder who it is?”

Bob saw that the window of the room was directly over the one story
addition in the rear. He wondered if he could not get up to it and find
out what was going on within.

Looking around, he espied a short ladder resting against an apple tree.
Catching up the ladder, he placed it against the addition, and found it
just reached the roof above.

Making sure that he was not being observed, Bob mounted the ladder
silently, and then made his way over the roof to where the window was
located.

As it was a warm night in the summer, both the upper and the lower
sashes were placed to admit the air, and, by putting his ear close to
the lower opening, Bob was able to make out all that was being said
within the room.

“You are certain the boy didn’t follow you?” he heard, in a rough voice.

“No, I’m not sure, Raymond,” came the reply, in the tones of Casco.
“But though I looked back I didn’t see him.”

“Humph! He might even this minute be somewhere about this place. Maybe
it would be better to take a look around.”

“I took a good look before I came in. He has either gone on to Kentown
or farther, I’m satisfied.”

“Well, it’s your fry, not mine,” laughed Raymond. “You must have had a
hard time with him.”

“I did. That boy is a wizard for being able to slip away when you least
expect it.”

“Do you suppose the others will follow you here?”

“I yelled at them to do so, when I sprang on the freight train. They
will, if they heard me.”

“It’s about time that deal went through.”

“I agree with you, Raymond; but the trouble has been that we could not
strike the right man to help us.”

“Won’t Watson do?”

“No. I sounded him, but he is too honest, even for big money.”

At that moment the wind flapped the curtain, and Bob could not hear the
immediate conversation which followed.

“What!” he heard Casco exclaim a minute later. “You are sure it is he?”

“Certainly. He signed the register.”

“And he is in the house now?”

“Yes.”

“I would like to get square with him!” muttered the scar-faced man,
savagely. “He is the chief cause of all my troubles.”

“We don’t want any trouble here,” replied Raymond. “Unless----”

“Unless what, Raymond?”

“Unless there is money in it.”

“He must have some money.”

“He said he had been on a collecting tour.”

“Then you may depend on it he has boodle. This district used to pan out
several thousands of dollars.”

“But how will you do the job?”

“You have a key to his room, I suppose?”

“Of course. It is No. 12.”

“I have here a bottle of chloroform. I will put some on a handkerchief,
and steal in and chloroform him. Then we can make up our minds what to
do next.”

The two men left the room, closing the door after them.

Bob drew a long breath. He had actually overheard a plot against one of
the guests of the hotel, and the young photographer was compelled to
shiver at the thought.

His duty was plain. No matter what the risk, he must warn the intended
victim of the plot against him.

Bob wondered who the person could be. Evidently it was somebody with
whom Casco was well acquainted.

Without hesitation Bob pushed aside the curtain and sprang through the
window.

The light was still burning, and at a glance the young photographer saw
the apartment was an unoccupied bedroom.

Listening at the door to make sure that the two had really gone below,
Bob, a second later, glided into the semi-dark hall-way.

The room in which the conversation had been held was numbered 47.
Following this came No. 45, and the youth had no trouble in tracing the
numbers until he came to No. 13, opposite to which was No. 12.

Bob listened at the door, and fancied he heard the breathing of a
sleeper within.

He tapped lightly, and then a little harder.

“Who’s there?” came in a hurried voice, accompanied by the creaking of
a bed.

“Open the door, quick!” cried Bob, through the key-hole.

“What’s the matter--house afire?” exclaimed the occupant of the room,
as he bounced up and unlocked the door.

“No, but I--Frank Landes!”

“What, Bob! is that really you?”

And the young man held out his hand.

“My, but ain’t I glad I overheard that talk!” burst out Bob, fervidly.

“What talk?”

“Lock the door, and I’ll tell you. But you must speak in a whisper.”

Frank locked the door and also bolted it.

“Now, in the first place,” began Bob, “have you a pistol?”

“I have; but what under the canopy does it all mean?”

“Casco is in this house.”

“By Jove! is that true?”

“And he and Raymond, the proprietor, have just hatched out a plot to
chloroform and rob you.”

“You are joking!”

“No, it’s the truth. Raymond thinks you have money with you.”

“So I have. I’ve been collecting for the firm, and that roll under my
pillow has eighteen hundred dollars in it.”

“They would do a good deal for it. You had better--hist--here they come
now.”

Bob caught Frank by the arm, and both grew silent.

Soft footsteps came up to the door, and then something scraped in the
lock.

“I can’t open it,” came at length, in the voice of Raymond. “I know a
better way.”

“What is it?”

“We can jump out on the roof of the extension and crawl through the
window. Come on.”

The footsteps moved away. Frank walked to the bed and brought forth his
pistol which was lying beside the roll of money.

“If they come in here, I’ll give them a warm reception,” he said,
significantly.




CHAPTER XXV

BOB AND FRANK STAND TOGETHER


By Frank Landes’ manner Bob knew that the young man meant what he said.

“They ought to receive a warm reception,” returned the young
photographer. “But do you think it will pay to stay here and fight
them?”

“What else is there to do?”

Bob pointed to the door leading to the hall-way.

“We can run away while they are trying to get in at the window,” he
suggested.

“But I am not dressed.”

“Slip on your clothes. I’ll shut the window and lock it, so they will
find themselves foiled, and have to come back to the door.”

As Bob spoke, he rushed over to the window and tried to close it.

But for some reason the lower sash refused to budge, even though in his
excitement he struck it several times along the edging.

“I had the same trouble when I opened it,” said Frank, who was hurrying
into his clothing as rapidly as possible.

“The confounded thing won’t come down, and that settles it,” cried Bob,
hopelessly.

“Never mind, let it go. I am ready to start.”

Frank moved swiftly toward the door and unlocked it. As he did so, the
face of Raymond appeared at the window.

“Quick!” whispered the young man, and he flung open the door for Bob to
pass through.

The hotel-keeper saw at a glance that something was wrong. He whispered
a few words to his companion, and Casco at once leaped into the chamber.

“There are two of them!” cried the scar-faced man. “You didn’t say he
had a roommate.”

“He didn’t have. Stop them!”

Frank and Bob had passed into the hall-way. Casco made after them as
noiselessly as possible.

In moving toward the stairs the two had to pass close to a
dimly-burning lamp. As they did so, Casco uttered a cry of amazement.

“That is Bob Alden with him! How did he get in?”

“The boy from the freight train?” queried Raymond.

“Yes. We must catch them. They have most likely overheard what was
said. Come on!”

Down the stairs went Frank and Bob, two steps at a time, with Casco and
Raymond in close pursuit. The scar-faced man began to yell, but the
hotel proprietor stopped him.

“Remember, the hotel is half full of guests,” he said. “We must
overcome them without too much noise.”

Once in the lower hall, Bob and Frank turned toward the front door. It
was locked, but the key was handy, and they had it open in a trice.

“Now which way?” questioned the young man when they were outside.

“It doesn’t make any difference. Come on!”

Away dashed Bob, with Frank directly behind him.

The way was dark, and the young photographer had scarcely proceeded a
dozen steps when he tripped over some stones and went down.

Frank came down on top of Bob, and before either could rise, Casco and
Raymond were upon them.

“We have them,” said Raymond.

“Don’t you dare to move!” cried the scar-faced man.

The darkness was unfavorable to any kind of fair fighting, and every
one went in as best pleased him. Casco was a powerful man, but Bob was
thoroughly aroused, and he fought so skilfully that the scar-faced man
was soon retreating.

The young photographer followed him up, thus becoming separated from
Frank and Raymond.

At length Casco turned and fled toward the brook, and jumping over,
disappeared in the brush and darkness beyond.

Bob knew it would be folly just at present to attempt to follow the
man, and after a moment’s hesitation he returned to the spot where he
had left Frank and Raymond.

The two had disappeared!

“Hullo, Frank!” called out the young photographer. “Where are you?”

No answer came back to the cry save the baying of a couple of hounds in
the barn, and Bob at once became more alarmed.

“What’s the row?” asked a voice from the hotel piazza.

The scuffle had attracted the attention of several of the men who were
making a night of it in the bar-room.

“Have you seen anything of Raymond?” asked Bob.

He knew it would be worse than useless to ask any of those men for
assistance.

“He’s up-stairs,” returned another of the men.

“You are sure he is up-stairs?” went on Bob, ignoring the question.

“He went up there a while ago. I haven’t seen him since.”

Bob was perplexed. It was more than likely that the man spoke the
truth, and this being so, what had become of Raymond and Frank?

Fearful of being questioned further, Bob moved toward the back of the
hotel again, while the men, muttering something he could not catch,
re-entered the bar-room.

As Bob walked toward the brook, he fancied he heard a low cry coming
from behind the barn, which was built close to the water’s edge.

He hurried in the direction, and caught a faint glimpse of two forms
struggling behind a number of bushes.

Coming closer, he saw that Raymond had Frank by the throat and was
forcing him over into the water.

As Bob dashed forward, there was a splash, and Frank went over, while
Raymond caught up a club to hit him should he attempt to rise.

“Don’t you dare to strike, Raymond!”

At the sound of Bob’s voice the hotel-keeper turned quickly.

“What do you want?”

“Let my friend up.”

“Hit him, Bob,” exclaimed Frank, faintly.

“Where is Casco?” asked Raymond as he began to retreat.

“Never mind,” returned the young photographer.

By this time Frank had managed to crawl from the brook. His head was
bleeding from a severe gash over the forehead.

“Look out for him, Bob,” he cried.

“I am looking out. Are you badly hurt?”

“My head feels rather queer.”

“What shall we do with this fellow?”

“He ought to be locked up.”

“Neither of you can do it,” sneered Raymond. “You don’t know me.”

“Yes, I do,” said Bob. “You are the toughest road-house keeper in the
country.”

“Thanks for the compliment.” Raymond mused for a moment. “I will make
a bargain with you. Quit the place at once and we’ll drop the whole
matter.”

“We sha’n’t leave you until you are safe in jail,” burst out Bob.

At these words Raymond burst into a laugh.

“You don’t know what you are talking about. You, a mere boy, expect to
do what no officer around has been able to accomplish. Get out of here
before I set my blood-hounds on you!”

As Raymond spoke, he darted around the corner of the barn before Bob
had time to stop him.

Then they heard him utter a cry that was immediately followed by the
deep baying of a hound.

“We had better get out of here!” cried Frank. “He has two of the
ugliest blood-hounds you ever saw.”

“I’ll give you one minute to get away in,” sang out Raymond. “After
that I’ll leave both my dogs loose.”

Raymond muttered something under his breath. Then there was a rattling
of chains, and the next minute two ferocious blood-hounds bounded out
into the yard.




CHAPTER XXVI

BOB SHOWS HIS NERVE


The blood-hounds stood still for a second on catching sight of Bob and
Frank.

Then, as if scenting the blood on Frank’s face, both made a dash for
the young man.

“Help me!” cried Frank. For the time being he seemed to be fairly
paralyzed with terror.

“Jump into the tree!” returned Bob, quickly.

The tree he mentioned stood but a few feet away. The lower limbs were
not far from eight feet from the ground and almost directly over
Frank’s head.

With a desperate spring the young man caught one of the limbs and drew
himself up just as one of the blood-hounds reached the spot where he
had been standing.

Baffled, the hound let out a deep growl and then stood up on his hind
legs, followed by his mate.

Then Bob thought of the pistol he carried and produced it.

Crack! Bob pulled the trigger of the pistol and one of the blood-hounds
fell back, shot through the heart.

“Here, stop that!” roared Raymond, from the door-way of the barn.

“I told you to keep them chained,” returned the youth as coolly as he
could. “Better call the other one in.”

The second hound turned at the shot, and backed several paces. Then he
looked at his mate as though surprised at what had happened.

“Good for you!” cried Frank. “Wait till I finish the other.”

He drew his own pistol and fired, but his aim was poor, and the bullet
merely grazed the blood-hound’s back.

With a howl of rage the hound sprang away from the tree. Then with set
teeth and gleaming eyes, he turned to attack Bob.

“Go for him, Leo!” cried Raymond.

He was in a rage and would have liked nothing better than to see the
hound tear Bob to pieces.

Bob again took aim and pulled the trigger. But for some reason the
weapon failed to go off.

The next instant the young photographer was knocked flat on his back by
the blood-hound.

Seeing this, Frank leaped down from the tree and rushed forward.

“Get back there!” he yelled at the hound, and fired his pistol at the
same time.

But the beast paid no attention to the command. He snapped at Bob, and
it was only by a quick movement to one side that the young photographer
kept himself from having his arm torn to shreds.

“Go for him!” cried Raymond.

Lying on his back, Bob made another attempt to shoot the blood-hound.
He pulled the trigger again, and this time the pistol went off, and
with a shrill yelp the beast keeled over and lay on his side with a
bullet through his head.

“I’ll fix you for that!” screamed Raymond.

He gave a shrill whistle, but already half a dozen men came running
from the bar-room of the hotel, anxious to know what the firing was
about.

“Is that you, Raymond?”

“What’s up?”

“These fellows are prowling about the place,” returned Raymond.

“That so?”

“They are up to no good. This one just shot both my dogs.”

“Don’t say! Why, those dogs were worth a hundred dollars.”

“Every cent of it. Boys, will you help me capture them?”

“Certainly we will. Hi! stop there!”

“Come on,” whispered Frank to Bob. “We can’t stand up against such a
crowd. The best we can do is to run away and summon the authorities.”

“The constable don’t amount to a hill of beans,” returned the young
photographer. “Yet if you say go, we’ll skip. I was principally after
Casco.”

“Come ahead this way.”

“Lead ahead.”

The young man turned to a lane which ran to the south of the barn, and
Bob came close behind. It was then that one of the men yelled for them
to stop, but he was not heeded.

“Where is Casco?” asked Frank, as they scurried along.

“Got away across the brook. I wonder if any of those fellows will
follow us.”

“It’s not likely, after they see the way you treated the hounds,”
laughed Frank. “By Jove! Bob, you are a crack shot.”

“I used to go hunting with old Peter Thompson’s gun when I wasn’t any
higher than a rail fence,” returned the young photographer. “Which way
now?”

“There is a customer of mine lives up a side road not far from here. We
might go to his house. I can’t go much farther with this head of mine.”

“Does it hurt very bad?”

“It aches fearfully.”

“Let me tie it up with a wet handkerchief.”

Bob got out his handkerchief and, wetting it in the brook, tied it over
the wound. Frank, declared this relieved him considerably, and the two
continued on their way at a more rapid pace than ever.

“I don’t believe they are following,” said Bob, as, after five minutes
of running, they paused to listen. “I believe that was only a bluff to
get us off.”

“Raymond is fearfully mad over the loss of those blood-hounds. He set
great store by them. That is one reason the authorities never cared to
go there to serve him with papers.”

“It was a pity to kill them, but it couldn’t be helped. I am glad the
shots were such lucky ones.”

“So am I. Here we are at Larchmond’s place. I suppose he will think it
awfully queer to be roused up at this time of the night.”

They now entered a neat garden, and walking up a gravel path ascended
to the porch. There was no bell, but a brass knocker instead, and this
Frank used vigorously.

A minute of dead silence followed. Then an upper window was shoved open
and a head covered with a night-cap appeared.

“What do you want?”

“Is that you, Mr. Larchmond?”

“Yes.”

“I am Frank Landes, the collector and agent.”

“Gracious! What business do you want this time of night? I sent that
consignment of eggs off----”

“The eggs are all right, Mr. Larchmond. I have other business of a more
serious nature----”

“Gracious, you don’t mean it!” and the old man’s voice actually
quivered.

“Shet the winder, you’ll catch yeour deth o’ cold, Thomas!” came in a
shrill female voice.

“I’ll be down in a minit,” said Larchmond, and bang, down came the
window.

Several minutes passed. Then a light appeared in the hall, and they
heard the old man nervously unlock and unbolt the door.

“Come in an’ tell me the trouble,” he said. “Why, who’s this?” he
added, looking at Bob.

“This is my friend, Bob Alden. We have just come away from Raymond’s
Hotel----”

“Is somebody killed there?” put in Larchmond, quickly. “I always
allowed as how some day they would have a fight and----”

“No one is killed but Raymond’s two blood-hounds,” laughed Frank.

“Do tell!”

“My friend Bob shot them. But we have had serious trouble, and we want
your advice as to what is best to do.”

“Come into the sittin’-room. It’s all right, Mirandy!” called Larchmond
up the stairs.

“I’m comin’ down!” returned Mrs. Larchmond, and presently she appeared,
fully dressed.

The story of the happenings at Raymond’s Hotel was soon told. Old
Larchmond and his wife listened with interest, the old man shaking
his head repeatedly, and the old lady putting in a “do tell” at every
opportunity.

“And now we want to know what is the best to do,” said Frank after all
the facts had been related.

“Yeou can’t do nuthin’,” replied Mrs. Larchmond, promptly.

“We can’t?” cried Bob.

“No, yeou can’t.”

“Why not?”

“Well, it’s this way,” said the old man, by way of explanation.
“Raymond is the wust feller in the whole deestrict. The law can’t tech
him, nohow. I tried to sue him onct, but the constable couldn’t serve
the papers, nohow.”

“Did you have Dilmer?”

“Yes, I had Dilmer, an’ I had Vincent, too; but it wuz no ust--them
dogs kept ’em at a safe distance.”

“But the hounds are now dead.”

“It don’t make no difference. Raymond can’t be teched, nohow. Anybody
in Kentown will tell you the same thing.”

“That’s a nice state of affairs,” cried Frank. “A man like that to
terrorize the whole neighborhood!”

“Well, you see, Raymond has lots of relations around here, an’ they
all stick up for him. If it wasn’t for that, somethin’ might be did,
although I doubt it, bless me if I don’t.”

“Thomas is right,” put in Mrs. Larchmond. “If your money is safe, you
better go about your affairs and say nuthin’.”

“Oh, the money is safe enough,” returned Frank. “I grabbed that up and
put it in my pocket the first thing.”

As the young man spoke, he put his hand into his coat pocket to make
sure that the eighteen hundred dollars were still there. Then he turned
pale.

“It’s gone!” he gasped.




CHAPTER XXVII

BOB MAKES A FIND


Every one in the sitting-room was astonished. Bob sprang to his feet.

“You are sure it is gone?” he demanded.

Frank continued his search, each moment growing paler.

“Yes, it’s gone!” he groaned. “Eighteen hundred dollars! What will the
firm say?”

“When did you feel to see if it was safe last?” asked the young
photographer.

“When I jumped up into the tree to get out of the way of the
blood-hounds.”

“And you are sure you had it then?”

“Yes.”

“Then you must have dropped it while running here. Perhaps it jounced
out of your pocket.”

“Maybe it did. My head hurt so before you tied it up I didn’t give the
money a thought.”

“Well, the best thing to do is to go back for it,” said Bob, promptly.
“The quicker the better.”

“What, go back to Raymond’s?” screamed Mrs. Larchmond. “He will kill
you.”

“It’s tremendous risky,” said the old man, with a shake of his head.

“Never mind, it’s got to be done,” said Bob. “Eighteen hundred dollars
is a lot of money.”

“Yes, I must go back,” said Frank. “What would the firm say if the
money was lost? They would most likely discharge me, and maybe say I
gambled it away, or something like that.”

“Will you lend us a lantern?” asked Bob, turning to Larchmond.

“Certainly.”

“You need not go, Bob. I can go alone.”

“No, indeed, Frank; we stick together to the end.”

The old farmer left the sitting-room and presently returned with a
lantern and a blunder-buss.

“You might as well take the buss along, too,” he said. “It’s a putty
good shootin’ piece.”

“Thank you, but I think our pistols will do, if you have any cartridges
around.”

“Timothy had cartridges for his pistol,” put in Mrs. Larchmond. “They
are up in his closet. I’ll get ’em.”

She soon returned with the cartridges, which, luckily, just fitted the
pistol Bob carried. It took but a moment to load, and then the boys
were ready to start back.

“I’d go, only my rheumatism is wuss,” said old Larchmond,
apologetically.

“Indeed you wouldn’t!” put in his wife. “I wouldn’t let you go for
twice eighteen hundred dollars; there, now!”

The boys were soon on the road. The lantern shone brightly, lighting up
every foot of the way.

“I trust we find it before we get anywhere near Raymond’s,” said Frank.
“I have no desire to get into another tussle with him.”

“Neither have I,” returned Bob. “But, Frank, keep your pistol ready for
use. We don’t want to waste words with such a desperate character as
that hotel-keeper.”

“I agree with you. Here is my pistol right in my coat pocket.”

“And I’ll carry mine in my hand. You take that side of the road, while
I take this, and carry the lantern as low as possible.”

In this fashion the two moved slowly along, searching every foot of the
hard and dusty road.

“I would like to know where Casco went,” said Bob, presently. “For all
we know, he might have watched that fight with the blood-hounds and
followed us.”

“Hardly. If he escaped across the brook, he most likely set out to join
Barker and Grogan. He would leave Raymond to settle the row here.”

“I wish they were all in jail,” sighed Bob. “Then perhaps I could make
Barker reveal something of the past, and make a somebody of myself.”

“You’ll make a somebody of yourself, anyway, Bob,” returned Frank,
encouragingly. “You’ve got too much grit to fail.”

But Bob shook his head, as if the idea of never finding out the secret
of his life did not please him.

Quarter of an hour later they came to a halt. They had reached the
boundary line of Raymond’s place, and still the money had not been
found.

“If we keep the lantern lit, they will surely see us,” said Bob. “You
had better put it out.”

“But how are we going to find the money in the dark?”

“By feeling for it. I know exactly the way we came, and I will lead on.”

Frank, after some hesitation, put out the lantern. The first streaks
of the early dawn were now appearing, and it was not so dark as he had
anticipated.

Bob was several yards ahead, moving along slowly, with his eyes bent on
the ground. Suddenly he gave a low cry.

“Here it is!”

“You have it?” inquired Frank, running up.

“Isn’t this the roll?”

“Yes.” The young man’s face took on a look of relief. “Oh, how thankful
I am!”

“Better examine it and make sure,” suggested Bob.

“Oh, it must be all right.”

Nevertheless, Frank hastily undid the paper and elastics which were
placed about the roll of money, and began to count the bills.

So absorbed did both he and Bob become that they did not notice the
approach of a tall form from a mass of shrubbery which grew close to
the road.

The newcomer was Jim Casco, who was on his return to Raymond’s Hotel,
satisfied that for the present, at least, it was safe to do so.

Casco was astonished to come upon the pair, and still more taken aback
to behold them at work counting a big roll of bills.

“What does this mean?” he muttered to himself. “They can’t have been so
near all this while.”

He drew closer, and nervously clutched the heavy stick he held in his
right hand.

“It’s right,” said Frank finishing the counting.

“You have every dollar of the eighteen hundred there?” asked Bob.

“Yes.”

“Good enough. Now we might as well go back without delay. I am dead
tired.”

“I should think you would be, not having any sleep since last night.
Perhaps Mr. Larchmond will give us a shake down.”

“I hope so.”

“Where is that wonderful photographic outfit you wrote me about?”

“Over in Dartinville. I will have to go for it as soon as we finish up
with Raymond.”

“We will see if we can’t have him arrested,” said Frank, decidedly.

“That’s it. And when--what was that?”

Bob broke off short. A dark object loomed up over his back and a
stinging blow went singing through his head.

“Stop!” he heard Frank cry. “Give me that money!”

Both Bob and Frank were sprawling in the road, while across the fields
ran Casco, with the roll of bills in his hand.




CHAPTER XXVIII

BOB MEETS OLD BLAKE


As quickly as he could, Bob sprang to his feet.

“Save the money!” gasped Frank.

He had received another crack over the head and the old wound was
bleeding afresh.

“Which way did that fellow go?”

“That way.”

“Who was it? Raymond?”

“No; Casco.”

“By jinks! So he had the cheek to come back. Stay here till I go after
him.” With his head still stinging from the blow the scar-faced man
had dealt him, the young photographer sprang over the bushes which
lined the roadway and made after Casco, who was running across the open
fields at top speed.

“I’ll either get Frank’s money or finish that wretch,” was the youth’s
somewhat savage resolve.

When about a hundred yards away, Casco looked back to see if either of
his victims had recovered from the attack.

He was astonished to see Bob in pursuit.

“Humph! The young rascal means business,” he muttered to himself. “I
must reach shelter as soon as I can.”

Not very far beyond was a small lake, the edge of which was lined with
willows. Toward this Casco directed his steps.

Bob saw the scar-faced man disappear behind the fringe of willow trees.
He did not come to a halt, but kept on at a slower gait, fearful that
Casco might be setting a trap for him.

Day was now breaking, and every moment the eastern sky grew lighter.

When Bob reached the edge of the lake, nothing was to be seen of the
scar-faced man.

Bob looked up and down the shore in perplexity, and then began an
examination for foot-prints.

They were plainly visible, leading to a little cove a hundred feet
southward.

When Bob reached the cove, he found close at hand a stake with a bit of
rope attached to it. The rope had been newly cut.

“Stole a boat, I’ll bet,” muttered the young photographer to himself.
“By jinks, what a fool I am! There he is!”

Bob looked out on the water, and there, a goodly distance from the
shore, was Casco in a boat, rowing away as fast as he could.

The scar-faced man was too far off to make a shot effective, and in
deep chagrin Bob saw him disappear around a cluster of islands in the
centre of the lake.

As fast as he could, Bob ran along the shore until he reached a spot
where he could see the other side of the island.

The boat had disappeared.

At first the young photographer could scarcely believe his senses. What
had become of Casco and the craft?

“Perhaps she filled with water and sunk,” thought Bob. “In that case he
would have to take to the islands. I wish I could keep him there till I
could get assistance.”

But Bob knew better than to leave the spot at once. Casco was a wily
villain, and not one of the kind to be caught like a rat in a trap.

“As soon as I disappear, he’ll think I’ve gone to summon assistance,
and then he’ll come ashore,” was the way Bob reasoned. “I think I’ll
play a watching game.”

Bob sat down on a rock, out of the sight of the islands, and waited.
Ten minutes passed and he saw nothing to command his attention.

“He is certainly taking his time,” thought the youth. “Hullo, what’s
that?”

Bob’s attention was attracted to a small boat which had suddenly shot
out from the opposite shore.

The craft contained a single occupant, an old man, who worked away at
the oars in a feeble way.

“He must be going to the islands, too,” thought the young photographer.
“This begins to look interesting.”

Bob watched the old man with keen interest. In less than ten minutes
the islands were reached, and the second boat disappeared as the first
had done.

“Who can that old chap be?” was Bob’s mental question. “Can he know
Casco?”

Five minutes more passed, and then the youth heard a well-known
whistle, to which he at once responded.

In a fraction of time Frank was at his side.

“I couldn’t stay any longer,” said the young man. “Where is Casco?”

“On one of those islands.”

“You don’t say! How did he get over?”

“On a boat; and just now another man went over on a second boat.”

“This is Catfish Lake, and they say the islands are haunted.”

“I don’t believe in ghosts,” declared Bob.

“Neither do I.”

“How is your head?”

“It feels thick, but it doesn’t ache, so I think I can stand it. What
do you propose to do?”

“Get back your eighteen hundred dollars!”

“Are you going to stay here until Casco leaves the islands?”

“Either that or pay the islands a visit. I wonder if there is another
boat anywhere?”

“I don’t know. There ought to be.”

“If you’ll watch the islands, I’ll take a look around.”

“I will. Sitting still just suits me.”

“Then maybe we had better watch all day.”

But to this Frank demurred. He was too anxious to get back the stolen
money.

Bob at once began his search for another boat. It was by no means an
easy task, as the shore was rocky and lined with a thick sedge.

Presently he came to the rear of a large farm, and here he found a boat
moored to a fallen tree.

By the looks of the craft the young photographer felt sure that it had
not been used for a long time. But it did not leak, so he did not care
how dilapidated it was in appearance.

Untying the boat, he towed her around to where Frank sat.

“I’ve found one,” he said. “But there are no oars.”

“I suppose they haven’t used it, fearing the ghosts from the islands
might catch them,” laughed the young man. “Well, I reckon you can get
along without oars on a pinch.”

“How?”

“The water is so shallow a couple of poles is all we will need to push
ourselves over. But, Bob, there is another thing.”

“What is that?”

“By going over to the islands you will run a big risk.”

“So will you. But if you are afraid----”

“I am not afraid for myself. But it’s asking too much of you----”

“Oh, stow that, Frank. I haven’t lost any money, but I’m just as
anxious to bring Casco to justice as you are.”

“And you want to make the trial in broad daylight?”

“If you say so, yes. We are both armed, and we ought to have as good a
show to come out on top as Casco.”

“That’s true.”

“If he begins to fire at us, we can come back and wait.”

A few minutes after they got aboard the boat. Bob had cut two
fair-sized poles, and also several bushes, which he stood up in the bow
of the craft.

“That will destroy his aim if he pulls on us,” said the youth.

It was hard work poling the boat along, as the bottom of the lake was
for the most part rocky, and the poles slipped. Once Frank nearly went
overboard, but Bob caught him by the arm in time to save him.

They had now come within a hundred feet of the islands, and still
nobody made his appearance, nor did they see a single sign of
hostilities.

“Maybe he’s skipped,” said Frank.

“I don’t see how he could. Come on, we will run in this inlet and jump
ashore. Got your pistol handy?”

“Yes.”

“Hold on till I take a good look ahead.”

Bob stood up in the bow and parted the bushes. At the moment that he
did so there reached them a most agonizing scream.

“Help me! Oh, save me!”

The cry came from behind a grove of willow trees, close to the shore.

“That isn’t Casco’s voice!” exclaimed Frank. “What can it mean?”

“It may be that old man I saw,” replied Bob. “Or it may be nothing but
a trap.”

“That’s no trap,” said Frank, as the scream again reached them.

“Don’t sound so, surely. Come on!”

Standing on the bow of the boat, Bob made a leap and reached the rocky
shore. In a minute he had dashed through the willows to the open glade
beyond.

A sight met his gaze that filled him with horror. There, lying flat on
his back, with his face covered with blood, was old man Blake!




CHAPTER XXIX

BOB HEARS INTERESTING NEWS


The old man had been struck in the head with a heavy stick which lay
close at hand.

“Hullo, who did this?” cried Bob, as he leaned over the old man.

“Casco, the villain!” gasped old Blake.

“Too bad!” returned the young photographer, kindly. “Let me examine the
wound.”

“Catch the rascal first; he has stolen the papers,” cried the old man.
“He must not get away with them.”

“Where is he?”

“He went off in that direction.”

Old Blake pointed with his long, bony finger toward one of the other
islands. Then he tried to rise, but fell back in a faint in Bob’s arms.
By this time Frank had arrived on the scene. He did not know Blake, but
he surmised that the old man had been another of Casco’s victims.

“Tend to him, Frank, while I go after Casco,” said Bob. “I’ll whistle
if I want you.”

Pistol in hand, the young photographer made his way through the willows
and over the rocks until, jumping a shallow spot in the water, he
landed on one of the other islands.

A noise ahead told him that Casco was not far off. But as Bob plunged
on the sounds suddenly ceased, and all became profoundly silent.

“I’ll bet a hat he has taken to the water again,” said Bob to himself.

Reaching the edge of the second island the young photographer found his
surmise correct. There, half-way to the north shore, was Casco in his
boat, pulling with all his strength. A minute later Casco reached shore
and disappeared from view.

“Gone!” groaned Bob. “And with Frank’s eighteen hundred dollars, too!”

The youth felt almost as bad as if the loss had been his own.

Frank Landes was his dearest friend, and, although the young man was
rich, Bob knew the loss of the money would be a sore trial to him.

When the young photographer returned to where he had left Frank and old
Blake, he found that his friend had bound up the old man’s forehead
with a wet rag torn from his coat sleeve. Blake was as pale as death,
and could scarcely move.

Yet he opened his eyes anxiously when Bob approached.

“Did you get ’em?” he asked feebly.

“No.”

“Didn’t you see Casco?” asked Frank.

“Yes. He escaped to the shore.”

Frank’s face fell, and Blake gave a groan.

“The papers, gone!” muttered the old man. “Gone, and Barker promised me
five hundred dollars for them!”

“What’s that?” asked Bob, with sudden interest.

“Nothin’,” mumbled Blake, but he eyed the youth in a dreamy,
speculative way for a long while after.

Bob and Frank now held a consultation. It was obvious that they could
not leave Blake alone. The old man might die if left without somebody
to nurse him.

“If you will remain, I will go after Casco,” said Frank. “As soon as I
reach shore, I will get somebody to drive me over to Dartinville, and
from there I will telegraph to the city for a couple of detectives.
This chase has lasted long enough. I will pay a couple of hundred
dollars out of my own pocket to run down Casco and his gang.”

Bob agreed to remain behind, and in a minute more Frank was off, poling
for the shore as hard as his tired arms would permit.

“Are you in the habit of coming to this island?” asked Bob of Blake,
when the old man was able to sit up.

“Sometimes,” was the slow response.

“Is there any sort of shelter here?”

Blake was silent for a moment.

“Why do you ask?” he questioned at length.

“Because if there was I might take you to it and make you comfortable.
You are not very comfortable out here on these damp rocks.”

“There is a cave-hut just back of here. Take me to that, please.”

As Blake spoke, a dizziness seemed to come over him, and he closed his
eyes. Bob waited until the spell was over, and then half carried, half
dragged the old man to the place he had mentioned.

The young photographer found that a large hollow under a shelving rock
had been converted into a dwelling-place by having a front of logs
built up against it.

There were a door and a window, and, entering the former, Bob
discovered a cot, a table, and a couple of chairs, while a number of
pans and dishes lay heaped up in a corner.

The youth placed Blake on the cot and made him as comfortable as the
conveniences of the cave-hut permitted. Blake pointed to a flask
resting on a shelf, and when the youth handed it to him the old man
took a deep draught of the liquor it contained.

It appeared to brace him up. The color came back into his face, and
presently he sat up.

“So you say Casco got away with those papers?” he said slowly.

“He got away. I know nothing of any papers.”

“He ought to let me have ’em back.”

“What did the papers contain?”

“Never mind.”

“They ought to be pretty valuable if Barker offered you five hundred
dollars for them.”

“Who said he did?”

“You did.”

“I was only foolin’. They ain’t worth anything to anybody but me.”

“How long have you known Barker?” went on Bob, seating himself beside
the old man.

“Longer than I care to remember.”

“Did you ever know Peter Thompson?”

“Yes.”

“What do you know about my past history?”

The young photographer asked the question boldly, watching Blake
intently as he did so.

He saw the old man start up and then fall back.

“Who said I knew anything about your history?” he said, sharply.

“I say so, Blake. Come, you had better tell me all. I am willing to
nurse you and see you through, but I want the truth from you, and
unless I get it you shall go to prison.”

“No! no!”

“I say yes.”

“But Sarah----”

“You mean your daughter?”

“Do you know her?”

“I know of her.”

“What will Sarah say?”

“I believe she has been at you to turn over a new leaf, Blake.”

“So she has,” and the old man sighed.

“Then why don’t you do it?”

For a long time Blake was silent. Bob could see that he was undergoing
a severe mental struggle. At last he heaved a long sigh.

“I will tell you all I know,” he said; “but you must promise to protect
me against Barker.”

“I will do that.”

“If he found I had exposed him, he might kill me.”

“It will not be long before Barker is in prison, and the others with
him.”

“That’s where they ought to be.”

“But tell me what you know,” went on Bob, impatiently.

“I first met Barker about ten or twelve years ago,” began old Blake.

“Where?”

“At the house of Robert Perry, your uncle, in Buffalo.”

“Robert Perry; is he still alive?”

“No; he died shortly after Barker came there.”

“Who is my father?”

“He was Thomas Perry, Robert’s brother. He was a captain in the United
States Army, and he was killed in an Indian raid in the Black Hills.”

“And my mother?”

“I don’t know anything of her. Your father met her out West and
married. When he was killed, you, a mere baby, was sent to your uncle’s
home. The report was that your mother was also killed by the Indians;
but your uncle could never learn the exact truth of that statement.”

“Then she may be alive?”

“Yes. I believe Barker knows for certain.”




CHAPTER XXX

BOB LEARNS SOMETHING OF THE PAST


Never had Bob listened to words that interested him more. Here, at
last, was news concerning his identity. His real name was Bob Perry,
and he was the son of an officer. It was not known for certain whether
his mother was dead or not. Supposing she was alive? A lump arose in
Bob’s throat at the mere thought.

“You say you think Barker knows?” he said, quickly.

“Yes.”

“Then I’ll make Barker speak,” was the young photographer’s
determination.

Blake took another pull at his flask and then continued:

“Barker pretends that he is the son of a sister of your father and
Robert Perry--a sister who emigrated to Montana with a man named
Barker.”

“He pretends?”

“Yes, pretends; for Casco found out that old Barker had no children
when he died. That gave him a hold on Barker.”

“I see. Go on.”

“Grogan knew Barker before he turned up at your uncle’s place. He once
told me, when he was full of liquor, that Barker’s real name was Bill
Dix, and that he was a Virginia outlaw, wanted for shooting a man in
Petersburg.”

“And that gave Grogan his hold on Barker?”

“It did. But all three are hard customers, and will do anything to get
money.”

“I’ve found that out. But why did Barker pretend to be my uncle’s
nephew?”

“Because your uncle was a bachelor, very old, and worth a pile of
money. He thought if he could get you out of the way he would come in
for part if not all of the fortune.”

“And how did he get me out of the way?”

“In rather a roundabout fashion. I was working for your uncle at the
time, and Sarah, my daughter, who is married to a young man named Paul
Marks, was working for a woman named Rose.

“This Mrs. Rose had a child sick with scarlet fever, and just at that
time you were similarly stricken. My daughter was told by the doctor
that Mrs. Rose’s child could not live. Barker heard of this, and one
day, when your uncle had to go to New York on important business, he
had the two children changed, paying Mrs. Rose quite some money for the
transaction.”

“Did your daughter know of the exchange?”

“She never knew, but she suspected something was wrong, and often
asked me. The day Mrs. Rose’s child was taken to your uncle’s house
it died, and as every one was afraid of scarlet fever, no one came in
from the neighborhood, and the little one was buried the next day, the
doctor making out a certificate without viewing the corpse.”

“And I was taken to Mrs. Rose’s house?”

“Yes. My daughter wanted to nurse you, but Mrs. Rose pretended to want
to do the nursing herself, and would not let my daughter in the room.
I believe the plan was to poison you, but you got well rapidly, and
Mrs. Rose did not have the heart to poison you, but sent you off to an
orphan asylum instead.”

“But how did I get to old Thompson’s?”

“Barker and Mrs. Rose quarrelled about a month later, and that very
day you were taken from the orphan asylum by somebody, and then I lost
track of you.”

“No doubt it was Barker’s work,” said Bob, remembering what Mary
Ridley, who had worked for Peter Thompson, had told him. “What became
of Mrs. Rose?”

“She died of heart failure brought on by the excitement of the quarrel.
At least that is what they said. Perhaps Barker poisoned her, he is
such a wretch.”

“And did he get possession of my uncle’s property?”

“He got possession of only a small part of it. The rest remains
somewhere tied up in the courts. Barker could not produce satisfactory
evidence in regard to his identity, and besides, he did not have those
papers I spoke about.”

“What papers are they?”

“They pretend to prove that your mother was killed as well as your
father. The package also has a number of letters from Barker to Mrs.
Rose relating to the changing of the children. I was holding them to
get money, but that is all over now.”

“How did you learn of all this?”

“By prying around and following Barker, whom I did not like from the
start. Then I got to drinking, and Barker and Casco made me their tool.
I tried to reform several times, because Sarah wanted me to, but the
appetite for liquor was too strong. But now I am done with it forever!”

As Blake finished, he caught up the flask, which was still half full
of liquor, and hurled it with all his strength against the rocky back
wall of the hut. It was smashed into a hundred pieces, and the liquor
splashed in all directions.

“I swear that from now on I’m going to lead a different life,” went on
the old man. “And if you will help me, I’ll do what I can to bring that
gang to justice and assist you in getting your inheritance.”

“And in finding my mother, if she be alive,” added Bob. “Blake, give me
your hand. From now on we are firm friends.”

The two shook hands. More conversation followed, and then Bob started
up a fire, for the air about the hut was damp, and finding some coffee,
made a couple of hot cupfuls, both of which were relished.

The young photographer asked Blake how he had come to locate on the
islands, and was told that the old man at times grew utterly disgusted
with himself and the world, and had found on such occasion a haven of
rest there.

“Do you think you can stand it if I row you to the main land?” asked
Bob, when it was nearly noon.

“I reckon so, but you’ll have to put me to bed somewhere after that.”

“I’ll take good care of you, Blake.”

“You’ll find my boat over in a hollow back of these rocks.”

Bob procured the craft, and then, exerting all of his strength, carried
Blake to it and sat him down in the stern.

Quarter of an hour later they drew up to the spot where Bob had found
the other boat. Here a fat farmer was looking around in perplexity for
his craft.

“Say, does you vos see mine poats?” he asked.

“Yes, I borrowed it,” said Bob. “I will pay you for its use.”

“Oh, dot’s all right den. I vos dinkin’ it vos drifted avay, ain’t it?”

“It’s over to the other shore. But, tell me, do you live here?”

“Sure, right ofer dere,” and the German jerked his thumb over his
shoulder.

“This man has been hurt in the head. If you will take him in and send
for a doctor, I will be very thankful and settle all bills.”

“Sure, I took him in. Carl!”

At this call a boy, even fatter than his father, appeared.

“Run an’ tole your mudder a chentleman vos got hurt an’ to gits a ped
reaty kvick.”

“Yah, fadder.”

The boy went off, and Bob, assisted by the German farmer, lifted old
Blake out of the boat, and carried him up to the farm-house.

Here the old man was placed on a soft feather bed, and Carl was sent
off for the nearest doctor.

Bob left a twenty-dollar bill behind to pay all immediate charges, and
then bidding Blake keep a stout heart, he hired a horse and buggy from
the German farmer and set off for Dartinville.

It was a good hour’s drive, but Bob did not mind that, being busy
thinking over all Blake had told him.

“I must corner Barker and make him tell me the whole truth,” was his
one conclusion. “If mother is alive, I want to know it. I’m not going
to be a nobody any longer.”

Half-way to Dartinville Bob met Frank driving a bay horse at a furious
rate.

“I have telegraphed for the detectives,” said the young man. “They will
be on hand this evening.”

“Then what is your awful hurry?”

“I have a clew as to the whereabouts of Barker, Grogan, and that
fair-ground swindler. Come along, and I will tell you how I caught it.”

Bob eagerly assented, and the two turned off into a side road, leading
to a hilly district, rather hard to travel.

On the way Frank explained how he had got on the track. While
telegraphing at Dartinville a stranger had sent a message to Stampton.
He had written out the message twice, throwing the first sheet away.

“The stranger’s manner excited my curiosity,” Frank went on, “and I
picked up the slip. It read: ‘Meeting at the red house on Rayville
Road. B., G. and C. there. To-morrow sure.’ I knew it meant Barker,
Grogan, and Casco.”

“They have some big plan on hand,” returned Bob, “and we must stop
their evil work. Let us drive as fast as we can.”

On and on they went, Bob on the way relating to Frank what old Blake
had confessed.

“They are indeed a set of villains,” returned the young man. “And
it--hold up!”

He drew rein, and Bob followed suit. They had just passed a cross-road,
and looking down it they discovered a crowd coming toward them composed
of Barker, Grogan, Raymond, and Casco!




CHAPTER XXXI

BOB GOES IT ALONE


Before the two could draw out of sight they were discovered by Barker,
who was slightly ahead of his companions.

“Hullo, there!” he sang out. “There they are, boys!”

“It’s so, for a fact,” said Casco. “Are they alone?”

“Sure, an’ they are,” put in Grogan.

“A good chance to capture them,” suggested Raymond.

“What good will it do?” asked Barker. “The new plan will work all right
anyway.”

“Better bag them until the thing is over.”

“That’s so,” said Casco. “Come on, we are four to two.”

He ran ahead, and the others quickly followed.

Frank saw them coming, and he whipped up his horse.

“We must drive for it, Bob!” he cried. “They are too many for us.”

“I would rather stand and fight it out,” returned the young
photographer.

But Frank urged him to follow, and to please his companion Bob did so.
As Barker and his companions were on foot they soon outdistanced the
crowd, and then Bob called Frank to hold up.

“What’s best to do now?” questioned the young man.

“I have a plan,” said Bob. “You go back to Dartinville and wait for the
detectives while I keep my eyes on this crowd.”

“That’s asking too much of you, Bob.”

“No, it isn’t. I will follow them wherever they go, and I will leave a
paper trail behind me so that you and your men can follow me up. That
will be the easiest way of tracking them down.”

“A paper trail?”

“Yes. I have a couple of newspapers I will tear into strips.”

“Well, here is another, if you insist.”

“If you find the trail ends suddenly, look for a message on the last
slip.”

“I will.”

“And take this horse and buggy, I will go after them on foot.”

For five minutes more the two discussed the plan, and then Frank drove
off with Bob’s buggy tied fast in the rear.

Once on the ground, Bob lost no time in making his way back to the spot
where they had discovered Barker and the others.

The young photographer was careful to keep out of sight, and now leaped
the rail fence on the side of the road and pushed forward through the
bushes.

To any one unaccustomed to this method of advancement it would have
proved slow and laborious, but Bob knew how to go ahead, and he was too
much interested to mind the fatigue entailed.

When Bob reached the spot, he found the enemy had moved on up the road,
but he soon drew close enough to make out their conversation, which
they carried on carelessly, as they continued up a narrow path leading
to the red house on the Rayville road, mentioned in the message.

“What do you suppose they will do?” asked Raymond.

“Not much,” returned Casco. “I reckon they have got tired of chasing
me.”

“It’s a wonder they don’t come down on your place, Raymond,” put in
Barker.

“If they do, they’ll find out I skipped for California,” chuckled the
hotel-keeper.

“But they just saw you.”

“It don’t make any difference. I’ve skipped, and the property belongs
to my wife, so what can they do about it?”

There was a general laugh, and then Casco and Barker dropped slightly
behind and began to converse in lower tones.

Bob could not hear what was said, but when he came to a break in the
brush he peered out and saw Casco hand Barker a thick packet, done up
in a large envelope.

“The papers and letters stolen from Blake,” muttered the young
photographer to himself. “I must get them without fail.”

A short while later the crowd reached the red house, a low structure,
built of bricks, many of which were cracked and crumbled.

All entered the house, and Bob saw the door closed, and heard no more.

The youth had been dropping slips of paper all the way. He now took a
larger slip and wrote this message upon it:

  “All in the red house. I am going in to listen. If I am all right, I
  will come back for this slip.”

Bob had just finished writing the slip when a low rumble of thunder
reached his ears. He glanced up and saw that a shower was coming up
from the west.

“Good!” he muttered. “The darkness and the wind may help me.”

Two sides of the red house were surrounded by trees and bushes, and
darting among them the youth had no difficulty in reaching a side door,
which stood partly open.

Listening intently, the young photographer heard a murmur of voices
in the front, showing that the crowd had entered what had once been a
sitting-room.

Throwing a number of strips of paper just outside of the door, Bob
pushed his way inside.

All was full of dirt and cobwebs, but to this the youth paid no
attention. He had a mission, and he felt in duty bound to fulfil it,
despite either dirt or danger.

From the side entry Bob passed into the rear room, which was separated
from the sitting-room by a stairway leading to the second story.

Under these stairs were a door leading to the sitting-room and also a
deep closet.

Peeping through the key-hole of the door, Bob saw the entire crowd
seated around a table in the centre of the room, smoking and drinking.

“It’s almost time Mavelt was here,” observed Barker. “He is taking all
day to send that message.”

“Perhaps he is waiting for an answer,” suggested Casco. “Did you tell
him not to wait?”

“No.”

“Then that is what he is doing.”

“Where is Horning?”

“He said he would be here later.”

“We want this thing fully understood,” put in Raymond. “I admit it’s a
big scheme, but if it don’t work, we’ll all be sent up for ten years
or more.”

“We’ll be sint up for loife,” remarked Grogan. “’Tis no small wurruk to
throw a train off the track.”

“We won’t throw her off unless it’s necessary,” said Barker. “Rankin
will set the signal if all is safe and----”

Bob could not catch what followed, for a burst of thunder drowned out
all other sound.

Yet he had heard enough. The evildoers were plotting to throw a certain
train off the track, unless matters were all right. What was meant by
all right? Casco’s words shortly afterward solved the question.

“The express car will carry over forty thousand dollars on her trip,
and Rankin will be in charge,” he said. “If he gets no chance to throw
it off, he will pull the bell-rope, jump off and join us. Then, when
the train starts, we will throw over that loose rail, and over goes the
train.”

“And what then?” put in Raymond.

“I have a key to the safe, which has an ordinary lock, not a
combination. You men can overpower the agent in charge while pretending
to help the passengers, while I open the safe. We can carry axes to
clear away such of the wreck as is necessary, and Grogan can be on the
wagon.”

“An’ it’s a good tame of horses Oi have for the occasion,” said the
Irishman.

“With the boodle in our possession we can make off at top speed,” went
on Casco. “Then we will meet here, divide up equally, and separate.”

“Yes, but if Rankin says it’s all right----”

Another burst of thunder followed. Then came heavy drops of rain,
followed by a perfect deluge.

The conversation continued, but Bob could only catch an occasional
word, and leaving the door he walked back to the entry.

“They are a nice gang of rascals and no mistake,” thought the youth.
“For the sake of gaining money they would derail a train, and perhaps
kill many passengers. Frank can’t get here with those detectives any
too soon.”

Bob looked outside. The rain was coming down in a perfect sheet, while
the murky air seemed to be filled with lightning.

“If it wasn’t such a fearful storm, I would walk back to Dartinville,
or up to Rayville, and summon help,” he muttered to himself. “But I
couldn’t make any progress in such a storm as this. Phew! how the wind
blows!”

A sharp streak of lightning followed which made everything as bright as
though the sun were shining.

Somewhat blinded, Bob shrank back. As he did so, a hand was placed on
his collar, and he was jerked rudely backward.




CHAPTER XXXII

BOB BECOMES A PRISONER


“That’s the time I caught you, you little sneak!”

It was Casco who uttered the words, and it was he who had stepped up
behind Bob and pulled him partly into the room.

Without replying the young photographer straightened up and let out
with his right arm.

The scar-faced man went backward in such a hurry that he hit the wall
opposite with considerable force.

“Help!” he yelled.

After the blow, so well delivered, Bob turned to flee, knowing full
well the danger of remaining an instant longer.

Alarmed by the sound of the row, Barker rushed out into the entry,
followed by Grogan and Raymond.

“Who is it?”

“Bob Alden! Catch him!”

“That imp! Which way did he go?”

“Out of the door.”

As he spoke, Casco managed to regain his equilibrium, and he followed
Barker and the others outside.

“There he goes!”

Barker and Grogan came after Bob, but the youth would have escaped by
outdistancing them had not just then something unexpected occurred.

Bob was making for the roadway when suddenly he ran plump into a man
who was making tracks toward the red house.

The force of the meeting was such that both went sprawling in the
mud, and before Bob could arise Barker was on top of him, and Grogan
followed.

“Here, what does this mean?” gasped the fellow Bob had knocked down.

“Good for you, Horning!” laughed Barker. “We wanted him stopped, and
you have done it.”

“Hang me if it isn’t that young fellow who tried to down me,” cried
Horning, as he sprang up and began to wipe the mud from his face.

“March back to the house,” ordered Barker to Bob. “No more escapes are
in order, understand.”

With something of a sinking heart Bob turned about and, with Barker on
one side of him and Grogan on the other, walked back and entered the
sitting-room, Horning following.

“It’s beastly weather,” muttered the latter. “I would never have
started out if I had known it was going to pour down like this.”

“Did you see anything of Mavelt?”

“Yes. He is waiting for an answer to his message. Rankin may change the
plan.”

“Pshaw! It wasn’t necessary.”

Once in the red house the whole crowd surrounded poor Bob, who was
disarmed and then bound.

“Yez sha’n’t escape me again,” said Grogan. “Oi’ll not go to slape
watchin’ yez this toime.”

“No, Mike, for the simple reason that I intend to do the watching this
trip,” laughed Barker. “You mean well enough, but you are not always to
be trusted.”

“I will take him up-stairs,” said Barker. “I want to have a talk with
him. Then I will come down, and we can decide on what we intend to do.”

As he spoke, he winked at Casco, and the scar-faced man nodded.

“Don’t be long,” said Raymond. “I want you to fix up that matter for
me.”

“All right.”

Bob was compelled to march up to the second story of the house and into
the front room.

“Now, sit down, Bob,” said Barker, as he closed the door. “I want you
to tell me something.”

Bob took a seat. He saw that Barker’s face was unusually cruel. The man
looked capable of killing him then and there.

“You followed Casco this morning, didn’t you?” began the man.

“Yes.”

“And you met Blake.”

“I did. I arrived just in time to save him from being murdered.”

“So Casco told me. Now, I want to know what Blake told you.”

“Told me about what?”

“About----” Barker hesitated an instant. “About me.”

“Supposing I don’t care to talk about that matter?”

“I want you to answer me!”

Bob remained silent. Stepping over to the defenceless youth, Barker
raised his hand and struck him in the face.

“Now will you answer me?”

“No.”

“You are mighty brave, I must say. But your bravery counts for nothing
with me.”

“And your bluster counts less with me.”

“I have you in my power.”

“I have been there before.”

“And you think you can escape again. But you will not, mark my word.”

“Maybe I will.”

Barker strode up and down the room a moment and glared at Bob.

“Did Blake tell you anything about yourself?” he asked, coming to a
halt.

“I told you I wouldn’t answer any questions. You may ask me if it is
going to stop raining soon, and I’ll have nothing to say.”

Barker grated his teeth.

“May break him, but never bend him,” he muttered to himself. “I never
saw his equal for pure spunk.”

“What did you hear down-stairs?” went on the man, shifting his tactics.

Instead of replying, Bob gazed up to the ceiling, and began to whistle.

Again Barker raised his hand.

“Stop that.”

“Does it annoy you?” asked Bob, coolly.

“You don’t seem to realize your situation.”

“Don’t want to if it’s going to scare me to death.”

But Bob did realize matters very plainly, and his chaff was only
uttered to keep up his courage.

“Look here, I’ll----” began Barker, when a crash of thunder drowned out
his voice and made him shrink back in awe.

“How long are you going to be up there?” called Casco, from the foot of
the stairs.

“I’ll be down in a little while,” replied Barker. “Why?”

“Mavelt is here.”

“What news does he bring?”

“The money will be on the express to-night.”

“To-night?”

“Yes. We have just time to get ready and no more. Finish with that boy
and come down.”

“That’s all right, too, but----”

A crash of thunder close at hand made both Barker and Bob jump.

The crash was followed by one of a different sort, as a tree which had
stood close at hand was split from top to bottom, and one side smashed
in the entire window-sash.

“Oh!” howled Barker. “I can’t stand this!”

Pale as a ghost he made for the door, and ran down the stairs.

“Now is my chance,” thought Bob. “It’s a great risk, but it’s the only
chance I have to save my life.”

Bound though he was, he managed to reach the broken window and climbed
up on the sill.

The tree, the top of which was on fire, still rested against the house,
and upon this Bob threw himself and rolled to the ground.

Some bushes were not far off, and as soon as he reached the soil the
young photographer rolled over and over, until he was out of sight.

Then came another streak of lightning which almost blinded the youth.
The air was filled with the smell of sulphur, while the noise was
terrific.

“Help I help!” came from the interior of the red house, accompanied by
the crash of falling walls.

The lightning had struck the chimney, and run down the centre of the
structure, ruining it completely.

For the moment Bob thought the end of the world had come. He lay still,
a strange sensation darting like needles through his whole system.

“Come on out, if you value your lives!” he heard Casco cry. “Sure,
an’ Horning is kilt!” howled Grogan as he came rushing forth. “The
loightning shtruck him, so it did. Come away!”

Bob heard no more. Another crash of thunder roared in his ears,
followed by a tremendous downpour of rain, and the crowd moved away to
seek a new shelter.

Poor Bob felt as weak as a sick kitten. He tried to move, but the shock
to his nerves had been too much, and presently his senses left him, and
all became a blank.

When he returned to consciousness, it was beginning to grow dark.
The rain had ceased, and the sky overhead was once more a deep blue,
flecked with white clouds.

For a while the young photographer could not remember where he was,
nor what had happened. But gradually he recalled the scene in the upper
chamber of the red house, and what had followed, and raising his head
he looked around.

The cottage was a mass of ruins, burnt and water-soaked, and beside it
lay the tree the lightning had split, the top charred and blackened.

“Thank Heaven for that escape!” murmured Bob. “My! what a close shave!”

He was still bound, but by working steadily at the rope he, after an
hour’s labor, managed to free himself.

He ached in every joint, but to this he scarcely gave attention. His
one thought was of the gang and what they intended to do.

Approaching the cottage, he examined the ruins, but could see nothing
of Horning’s remains. Whether or not the gang had buried the man the
youth could not tell.

Bob knew that the express of which the men had spoken would leave
Stampton at eight o’clock and would arrive in Dartinville at
eight-thirty, making no stop excepting on flag.

It must now be seven or half-past. He must hurry. If the train and its
passengers were to be saved, there was no time to lose.

Bob knew it was at least a mile and a half to the railroad track, and
two miles to the nearest way station. Could he cover that distance in
time?

“I’ll do it or die in the attempt!” muttered the brave youth. “If I
only had a horse!”

But there was no horse in sight, nor, indeed, any farm-house where one
might be procured. All was dark and lonely.

Bob set out at a brisk gait. He felt like groaning at every step,
but ground his teeth together and kept on. Either he would cover the
necessary distance or drop dead on the road.

“They will find that I am not so easily overcome as they expected,” he
muttered, grimly. “And now, with hundreds of lives at stake, what sort
of a chap would I be to show the white feather?”

Bob had to make a guess as to which was the shortest way to the nearest
station, and praying that he was right and would arrive in time he
pushed on and on.

Over the rough fields and through the brooks, now swollen high from the
recent rain, went Bob, half walking and half running. He was hatless,
and the jump from the window had nearly sprained his ankle, but what
did he care? If those lives were to be saved, he alone must accomplish
the task.

At last a long, low rumble reached his ears.

“The track can’t be far off, and that is a train.”

Bob paused for only a second to listen and to locate the sound. He was
right. It was a train, going in the opposite direction.

“It’s the last train through that way to-night,” he said to himself.
“Now the only one to pass the other way is the express, and that must
be almost due.”

Off through a patch of woods Bob heard the train slow up, come to a
stop, and then start off again.

“That means a station of some sort most likely,” was his mental
comment. “Oh, if I can only reach it in time!”

Through the woods, the brush sweeping his face and scratching his skin,
went Bob, his breath coming in short, sharp gasps. He was almost played
out.

At last the woods were passed. Then came an open field, and beyond lay
the iron tracks.

Bob looked up and down. The little station was a good hundred yards off.

“Stop the train!” cried the youth as he dashed up.

Then he gave a cry of dismay--the place was deserted--the
station-master had locked up and gone home for the night.

And now came a rumble from the distance, and looking down the tracks
Bob saw the gleaming head-light of the express as it came thundering
along at the rate of fifty miles an hour.

“If I only had a red-lantern!” groaned the youth.

He looked around. Was there no lantern in sight? Hither and thither he
rushed, growing more frantic every second.

Ah! here was an old lantern at last. But it was a common affair with a
white glass and unlit.

With nervous haste Bob felt for a match and drew it forth. It was wet
from the rain and refused to burn. He threw it away and pulled out
another and then another, and at last the lamp was lit and burned
brightly. But, alas! the light was white, and the danger signal must be
red! And now the express was almost upon him. In ten seconds it would
be gone, and then what dire disaster would follow!

Suddenly Bob gave a jump. In his vest pocket was a small ruby
lantern-slide of red glass, such as nearly every professional
photographer possesses.

In feverish haste Bob drew forth the bit of glass and held it in front
of the white light.

Then the red light was waved wildly to and fro as the express dashed
past.

Had his signal been seen?




CHAPTER XXXIII

BOB AND HIS MOTHER--CONCLUSION


The single second which followed the passage of the express train
seemed to Bob an age.

He continued to swing the red light until he heard a shrill shriek of
the whistle and saw the fire fly from the wheels of the locomotive as
the engine was reversed, and then he staggered up against the little
station.

The express train had been saved!

In less than ten seconds the conductor came running forward.

“What’s the matter, Boswell?” he cried. “Quick, we are behind time
already!”

Bob tried to speak. His voice came almost in a sob.

“Don’t go! The track--the robbers have loosened a rail and----”

“Hullo! it ain’t Boswell at all! Why, what’s the matter with you?
Rivers! Jones! Come here!”

The engineer and one of the brakemen came at the call, and all three
gazed at the young photographer, whose eyes were closed, and whose form
was gradually slipping down on the platform.

“He’s fainting!” went on the conductor. “Here, help me place him on
this baggage truck.”

“What did he stop the train for?” asked the engineer, as he assisted in
making Bob comfortable.

“I don’t know. He said something about robbers and a loosened rail.”

“Is that so? Wait till I get a bit of water and dash it into his face.”

“He’s been cut on the forehead,” put in the brakeman, “and he seems
completely exhausted. You can bet he didn’t stop the train for nothing.”

Water was procured and dashed into Bob’s face. With something of a
shudder he came to his senses.

“Is the train safe?” he asked feebly.

“So far, yes; but what’s the trouble?”

Bob was silent for a moment, as if trying to pull himself together.
Then he sat up.

“Where is the conductor?”

“I am the conductor.”

“You have an express car attached to the train?”

“Yes; but what----”

“Arrest the express agent.”

“Arrest him!” called three of the hearers.

“Yes.”

“What for?”

“He is in with a gang of robbers to rob the car of forty thousand
dollars which you are carrying.”

“How do you know that?”

“I overheard the plot.”

“Do you know the men?”

“Yes.”

“Who are they?”

Bob mentioned the names. Then in as few words as possible he related
how the deed was to be done.

“I believe the boy is right,” said the engineer. “I suspected something
was wrong by the way Mavelt acted yesterday. And, come to think of it,
he asked me the exact time we passed Gooseneck Falls.”

“Then that is the place where the gang will try to throw the train off.”

“Who are you?”

“I am Bob Alden, a travelling photographer. Mr. Maverick hired me to
take pictures along the route for a new guide book.”

“I’ve heard of you,” said the conductor. “By Jove! but this is a
rascally piece of business.”

“What’s to be done?” asked the engineer. “We can’t stay here all night.”

“I’ll tell you what to do,” said Bob. “Run back to that last station
and get a number of officers. Then run up to Gooseneck Falls and
capture the rascals.”

“That’s a good plan,” said the conductor. “And in the mean time I’ll
stay with that express agent and see that he doesn’t skip out.”

“Can I go along?” asked Bob.

“Certainly. Come, I’ll help you to the parlor car and you can go into
the lavatory and wash up. The porter will give you some court-plaster
and such stuff, if you need it.”

Bob braced up and was soon aboard the car. Then they started back, much
to the surprise of the express agent, who came out to inquire what was
up.

The conductor told him, and also ordered him to keep still. The fellow
was very much frightened, and said he knew nothing of the intended
robbery.

While the train was making fast time back to the last station of any
size Bob washed his face, bound up his wounds, and sat down to rest.
The porter offered him some whiskey, but Bob declined.

“I don’t drink liquor, but if you have any coffee----”

“Yes, sah, right away, sah,” returned the darkey, and just before the
train came to a stop the young photographer had a strong cup of coffee,
which made him feel like another person.

Word was at once sent to the nearest police station, and presently four
officers hurried to the train. Behind them came a form that looked
familiar to Bob. It was Frank Landes.

“I was out with the detectives, but I lost your trail in the storm. One
of the men thought you had come here. I was at the police station when
the order for the men came in. What’s up?”

“They are going to bag the whole crowd,” returned Bob. “Come on, if you
want to take part.”

Frank hopped aboard. In a second more they were off. The officers, with
Bob, Frank, and the conductor, occupied the express car, so that very
few of the passengers on the train knew that anything unusual was going
on, although they wondered why the run backward had been made.

The engineer crowded on the steam, and they went spinning along at
the rate of sixty miles an hour. On the way all hands talked over the
prospects ahead.

Suddenly a whistle was heard and the train slowed up.

“Here we are,” said the conductor. “Gooseneck Falls are not over a
hundred yards ahead.”

Bob, Frank, and the officers jumped at once to the ground. Then they
separated, the officers on one side of the track and Bob and Frank on
the other.

“We ought to get some distance away from the track,” said Bob. “It
isn’t likely the gang will remain close at hand when they expect the
train to run off.”

“That’s so, Bob,” returned the young man. “Come, here is a path. Let us
take that.”

The path led to a spot fully a hundred feet back of the track. They
pursued it in silence until Bob caught Frank by the sleeve as a signal
to stop.

“What is it?” whispered the young man.

“They are just ahead.”

“You are sure?”

“Yes. I heard Grogan talking.”

“Hark!”

They listened. This time it was Barker who was speaking.

“Why is the train halting down there? I don’t see anything of Rankin.”

“That’s what I would like to know,” came in Casco’s tones. “Something
is wrong.”

“Sure, an’ that is phat Oi’m afther thinkin’,” put in Grogan.

“I’ve a good mind to go down and see,” said Raymond. “If there is
anything wrong, the sooner we find out the better.”

“Oh, it’s all right,” put in a strange voice, which Bob supposed must
be that of Mavelt. “Don’t get alarmed the first thing.”

“That storm upset me completely,” said Barker. “Hullo, the train is
coming on again!”

“Yes, but awfully slow.”

“They are watching the tracks!” cried Casco. “They must----”

He broke off short. Bob had given a signal to the officers on the other
side of the track. In a second the signal was returned. The gang heard
it as well as Frank and Bob.

“Something is amiss!” cried Raymond.

“An’ we had betther git out,” added Grogan.

He turned to run, but found himself confronted by the young
photographer.

“Sure an’ it’s a ghost!” he shrieked. “Let me go!”

Before he could say a word more Bob struck him in the head, and down
went Grogan in a heap.

“What, Bob?” cried Barker, rushing forward. “How did you escape?”

“That’s my business, Bill Dix. Hold up your hands!”

The man addressed was dumfounded.

“Did you hear?” went on Bob.

“Who told you I was Bill Dix?” cried the robber, savagely, as soon as
he could recover.

“Never mind now. Up with your hands!”

“Never!”

Dix, for that was really Barker’s name, attempted to draw his pistol.

Now came a rush from the other side of the track, and suddenly a pot of
burning red fire lit up the scene.

“Surrender, in the name of the law!”

“Trapped!” yelled Casco. “Boys, we must fight for it.”

“But _you_ sha’n’t do any fighting,” added Frank, and, rushing up
behind the scar-faced man, the young man wrenched the pistol from his
hand and knocked him down.

Raymond turned to flee, but one of the officers caught him, while
Mavelt was also secured, and in five minutes more the entire gang was
under arrest.

“Who gave us away?” demanded Dix, while he was being taken to the train.

“I had that pleasure,” returned Bob. “I told you I would come out on
top, Dix.”

“Just wait till I get out of this scrape, I’ll----”

“You won’t get out of it for a good many years,” put in one of the
officers. “So you might as well keep your temper to yourself.”

The burning of the red fire and the pistol-shots had aroused all the
passengers, and they crowded around when the prisoners were brought to
the train.

A loosened and misplaced rail was found on the track a hundred feet
farther ahead. It was quickly adjusted and fastened down, and then the
express proceeded to the next large station.

At the depot there was a perfect jam, including many women, who had
been passengers on the express. They watched the transferring of the
prisoners to the platform with deep interest.

“William Dix!” suddenly cried a woman from out of the crowd.

Everybody, including Bob, turned toward the woman. She was a person
apparently forty years of age and dressed in black.

“Bill Dix! I must see that man!” went on the woman, and she tried to
push her way forward.

“Do you know the man?” questioned one of the officers.

“Yes, yes! I have been hunting for him for a long time! Oh, let me
speak to him!”

“You may do so at the station-house.”

“Thank you! So he is one of the robbers? I knew he was a bad man, but
he is worse than I supposed.”

The woman followed the crowd to the station-house, where Bob and Frank,
as well as the chief of the officers, made a formal complaint against
the gang.

After this, two of the officers, accompanied by Frank, set out to
recover what they could of the money and other things which had been
stolen.

For some reason he could not explain, Bob was deeply interested in the
woman in black. Presently, seeing a good chance, he spoke to her.

“You say you know this Dix?” he began.

“Yes, I have known him for years.”

“I am very anxious to learn something about him,” went on Bob.

“And I am very anxious to make him tell me something,” returned the
woman. “He did me a wrong, and I want him to do what he can to right
it.”

“He did me a wrong also.”

“Indeed? May I ask your name?”

“I am known as Bob Alden. But my right name is Bob Perry.”

The woman started back and grew as pale as death.

“Robert Perry!” she gasped.

“Yes. But why----”

“Were you the son of Thomas Perry, an army officer?”

“I was, and still am, but----”

“Thank Heavens!” and the woman caught Bob in her arms.

“I don’t understand,” began Bob, with a curious sensation stealing over
him.

“I am your mother, Bob!”

“My mother!”

“Yes, your mother! Oh, how glad I am that I have found you!”

“I’m glad, too,” said Bob, brokenly. His heart was jumping so much he
could not say a great deal. “But it’s all so wonderful,” he added,
after a moment.

“So it is.”

“Where have you been all these years? Why didn’t you come to my Uncle
Robert’s house?”

“It’s a long story. When your father was killed, I nearly lost my mind.
When I recovered, I was told by a man, who I afterward found out was
Dix’s tool, that you had been stolen by the Indians. I made a long
search, lasting years. Then I was coming to your uncle’s home here in
the East, when I learned that he was dead. It was quite by accident
that I discovered the trick which had been played on me, and I at once
set out to find you.”

“And I have been hunting for you,” replied Bob, with a beaming face. “I
understand it all now. Dix was playing a double game--trying to keep me
out of the way at one end and you out of the way at the other. But he
has been foiled, just as he deserved.”

When Dix was confronted by Bob and his newly-found parent, he could not
say a word. He had played a desperate game to the finish and lost.

Bob conducted his mother to a hotel, and here the two spent a happy
night.

One of the first callers in the morning was Frank. He was astonished
when Bob introduced Mrs. Perry.

“So you won’t be a nobody any longer, Bob, eh?” he smiled.

Frank had glorious news. Aided by a confession made by Mavelt, he and
the officers had recovered everything stolen by the gang, including
John Wright’s money and plate, Blake’s package, and Frank’s eighteen
hundred dollars.

“It’s a great haul,” said Bob, “and I believe it will settle this crowd
for good.”

And he was right.

But here we must leave Bob the photographer and pass over a period of
several years.

Bill Dix was tried and sentenced to twenty years in the State prison.
After this sentence is finished he will be sent to Virginia to answer
to a charge involving murder. The other evildoers are also suffering
the penalty of the law.

Old Blake recovered from the attack made upon him by Casco, and
completely reformed. He now lives with his daughter, who is well
settled in life.

Frank Landes is a partner in the firm for which he formerly worked, and
is getting rich rapidly.

Bob and his mother live in an elegant mansion in Stampton. The young
photographer has taken sweet Grace Maverick for a wife.

“And she couldn’t do better, even though the young man isn’t a
millionaire,” says Gregory Maverick, for he is more than pleased over
Bob’s show of bravery.

But Bob is doing well in life, having at present not only the finest
studio in Stampton, but also an interest in one of the largest
photographic supply houses in the country. And so we will leave him,
wishing him continued success.


THE END.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOB, THE PHOTOGRAPHER ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

